<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Water Sleeps</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="water.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide51.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide53.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">51</h2>

<p class="noindent"><span class="dropcap">T</span>he baby continued
to cry, burrowing into her mother&rsquo;s breast without looking
for nourishment. The noise worried everyone. Anyone who wished to
visit misfortune upon us would have no trouble tracking us. We
would be unlikely to hear them sneaking up, because of the crying
and the sound of drizzle falling from branch to branch in the
waterlogged trees. River and the Company Singhs kept their hands on
their weapons. Uncle Doj had recovered Ash Wand and was keeping it
handy despite the risk of rust.</p>

<p>The animals were as thrilled as the infant was. The goats
bleated and dragged their feet. The donkeys kept getting stubborn,
but Mother Gota knew a trick or three for getting balky beasts of
burden moving. A considerable ration of pain was involved.</p>

<p>The rain never ended.</p>

<p>Narayan Singh took the lead. He knew the way. He was home.</p>

<p>I felt the dread temple loom before us although I could not see
it. Narayan&rsquo;s sandals whispered as they scattered soggy
leaves. I listened intently but heard nothing new until Willow Swan
started muttering, nagging himself for having followed up on the
one original idea he had ever had. If he had ignored it, he could
be rocking beside a fireplace in his own home, listening to his
own grandkids cry, instead of tramping through the blue miseries on
yet one more mystery quest where the best he could look forward to
was to stay alive longer than the people dragging him around. Then
he asked me, &ldquo;Sleepy, you ever consider throwing in with that
little turd?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Somewhere, an owl screamed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Which one? And why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Narayan. Bring on the Year of the Skulls. Then we could
all finally sit back and relax and not have to slog around in the
rain and shit anymore.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. I haven&rsquo;t.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The owl screamed again. It sounded frustrated.</p>

<p>What sounded like crow laughter answered it, taunting.</p>

<p>&ldquo;But that&rsquo;s what the Company set out to do in the
first place, isn&rsquo;t it? To bring on the end of the
world?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A handful of the senior people did, apparently. But not
the guys who actually had to do the work. There&rsquo;s a chance
they didn&rsquo;t have any idea what it was all about. That they
marched because staying home might be a less pleasant
option.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Some things never change. I know that story by heart.
Careful. These steps are slicker than greased owl shit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He had heard the birds conversing, too. That was a northern
saying that lost something in translation.</p>

<p>Rain or no, the goats and donkeys flat refused to move any
nearer the Deceiver shrine, at least until a light took life inside
the temple doorway. That came from a single feeble oil lamp, but in
the darkness it seemed almost bright.</p>

<p>Swan observed, &ldquo;Narayan knows right where to look,
don&rsquo;t he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m watching him. Every minute.&rdquo; For what
good keeping a close eye on a Deceiver would do.</p>

<p>To tell the truth, I was counting on Uncle Doj. Doj would be
much harder to trick. He was an old trickster himself. As a
trickmaster, I needed to stick to what I knew, which was designing
wicked plots and writing about them after they ran their
course.</p>

<p>Something flapped overhead as I entered the temple. Owl or crow,
I did not turn quickly enough to discover the truth. I did tell
Runmust and Iqbal, &ldquo;Keep a close watch while I check this
out. Doj. Swan. Come with me. You know more about this place than
anyone else.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Below, River and Gota swore vilely as they strove to keep the
goats under control. Iqbal&rsquo;s sons had fallen asleep where
they stood, indifferent to the ongoing rain.</p>

<p>Narayan blocked my advance just steps inside the temple.
&ldquo;Not until I complete the rituals of sanctification.
Otherwise you&rsquo;ll defile the holy place.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was not my holy place. I did not care if I defiled it. In
fact, that sounded like an amusement to be indulged&mdash;just before I
had the place torn down yet again and this time plowed under. But I
did have to get along. For the moment. &ldquo;Doj. Keep an eye on
him. Runmust. You, too.&rdquo; He could pick the living saint off
with his bamboo if the Deceiver tried to be clever.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We have an understanding,&rdquo; Narayan reminded me. He
seemed troubled. And not by me. He kept poking around like he was
looking for something that was supposed to be there but just was
not.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You make sure you hold up your end, little man.&rdquo; I
stepped back outside, into a drizzle that had become more of a
heavy, falling mist.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sleepy,&rdquo; Iqbal whispered from the base of the
steps. &ldquo;Check what I found.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I barely heard him. The baby continued to crank. Long-suffering
Suruvhija rocked her and hummed a lullaby. She was not much more
than a girl herself and, I suspected, not very bright. I could not
imagine any woman being happy with her life, but Suruvhija seemed
content to go where Iqbal led. A breeze stirred the branches of the
grove. &ldquo;What?&rdquo; Of course I could not see. I descended
the temple steps into the damp, chilly darkness.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Here.&rdquo; He shoved something into my hands.</p>

<p>Pieces of cloth. Fine cloth, like silk, six or seven pieces,
each with a weight in one corner.</p>

<p>I smiled into the face of the night. I snickered. My faith in
God was restored. The demon had betrayed her children again. Slink
had gotten to the grove in time. Slink had been sneakier than any
Deceiver. Slink had done his job. He was out there somewhere right
now, covering us, ready to offer Narayan another horrible surprise.
I felt much more confident when I went back inside and yelled at
Narayan, &ldquo;Get your skinny ass moving, Singh. We&rsquo;ve got
women and children freezing out here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Narayan was not a happy living saint. Whatever he was looking
for, under cover of fortifying the temple against the defiling
presence of unbelievers, just was not there to be found.</p>

<p>I was tempted to toss him the captured rumels. I forbore. That
would only make him angry and tempt him to go back on his
agreement. I did tell him, &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve had time enough to
sanctify the whole darned woods against the presence of
nonbelievers, don&rsquo;t you think? You forget how miserable it is
out here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You should cultivate patience, Annalist. It&rsquo;s an
extremely useful trait in both our chosen careers.&rdquo; I forbore
mentioning that we had been patient enough to get him tucked into
our trick bag. Then his exasperation surfaced for a moment. He
hurled something to the floor. He was not out of control by much
but it was the first time I ever saw him less than perfectly
composed when he was supposed to be the master of the situation. He
whispered something as he beckoned me. I do believe he took his
goddess&rsquo;s name in vain.</p>

<p>This new version of the temple was scarcely a shadow of what
Croaker and Lady had survived. The present idol was wooden, not
more than five feet tall and unfinished. The offerings before it
were all old and feeble. The temple as a whole did not possess the
sinister, grim air of a place where many lives had been sacrificed.
These were lean times for Deceivers.</p>

<p>Narayan persisted in his search. I could not bring myself to
break his heart by telling him the friends he expected to meet must
have fallen foul of the friends I&rsquo;d hoped to meet. You need
to keep a certain amount of mystery in any relationship.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;Tell me where it&rsquo;s all right to spread out
and where you&rsquo;d rather we didn&rsquo;t and I&rsquo;ll see
that we do our best to honor your wishes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Narayan looked at me like I&rsquo;d just sprouted an extra head.
I told him, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been thinking a lot lately.
We&rsquo;re probably going to be working together for a while.
It&rsquo;d make things easier for everybody if we all made the
effort to respect one another&rsquo;s customs and
philosophies.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Narayan scooted off. He began the process of laying a fire and
of telling people where they could homestead. The temple was not
that big inside. There would not be much room to spread out
there.</p>

<p>Singh would not turn his back on me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You spooked him good,&rdquo; Riverwalker told me.
&ldquo;He&rsquo;ll spend the whole night with his back to the wall,
trying to stay awake.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I hope my snoring helps. Iqbal, don&rsquo;t do
that.&rdquo; The fool had actually started helping Mother Gota set
up to do some cooking. That old woman was a menace around a cook
fire. She was already under a ban throughout the Company. She could
boil water and give it a taste to gag you.</p>

<p>Iqbal grinned a grin that told the world he needed to consult
One-Eye about his teeth. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re setting this up for
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right.&rdquo; Much better. Much much better.</p>

<p>After she finished helping Iqbal, the old woman helped milk the
goats. Now I understood how Narayan felt. Maybe I should keep my
back to a wall and watch my dozing, too.</p>

<p>Gota was not even complaining.</p>

<p>And Uncle Doj had stayed outside, presumably to enjoy the
refreshing weather and cheerful woods.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide51.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide53.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

