<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Yendi</title>
<meta name="title" content="Yendi">
<meta name="series" content="Vlad Taltos">
<meta name="booknum" content="2">
<meta name="author" content="Brust, Steven">
<meta name="genre" content="Science Fiction/Fantasy">
<meta name="publisher" content="Ace Books">
<meta name="isbn" content="0-441-94460-4">
<meta name="version" content="v3.0">
<meta name="proof" content="Shoggoth">
<meta name="proof2" content="Nadie">
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="yendi.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide6.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide8.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">6</h2>

<h3 class="chapter">&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to take a
walk.&rdquo;</h3>

<p>When I say &ldquo;Empress&rdquo; you probably get an image of
this old, stern-looking matron, with iron-gray hair, dressed in
gold robes, with the Orb circling her head as she issues edicts and
orders affecting the lives of millions of subjects with a casual
wave of the sceptre.</p>

<p>Well, the orb <em>did</em> circle her head; that part is right.
She wore gold, too&mdash;but nothing as simple as robes. She would
often wear&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;but, never mind.</p>

<p>Zerika was a young three or four hundred, which is like
mid-twenties to a human. Her hair was golden&mdash;and if I&rsquo;d
meant &ldquo;blond&rdquo; I would have said &ldquo;blond.&rdquo;
Her eyes were the same color, rather like a lyorn&rsquo;s, and
deeply set. Her forehead was high, her brows light and almost
invisible against very pale skin. (Notwithstanding the rumors,
however, she was <em>not</em> undead.)</p>

<p>The House of the Phoenix is always the smallest, because they
won&rsquo;t consider you a Phoenix unless an actual phoenix is seen
to pass overhead at the time of your birth. The Interregnum had
eliminated every Phoenix except Zerika&rsquo;s mother&mdash;who
died in childbirth.</p>

<p>Zerika was born during the Interregnum. The last Emperor had
been a decadent Phoenix, and since this was the seventeenth Cycle,
the next Emperor had to be a Phoenix too, since a reborn Phoenix is
supposed to follow a decadent Phoenix every seventeen Cycles. So
far as I can tell, by the way, a reborn Phoenix is an Emperor of
the House of the Phoenix who doesn&rsquo;t become decadent by the
end of his reign. Anyway, since Zerika was the only Phoenix living
at the time, this meant it had to be Zerika. (All of this business
about &ldquo;what makes a Phoenix&rdquo; is very strange when
combined with aspects of the relationships among Houses&mdash;such
as genetics. I mean, it seems absurd to have the opinion that most
Dragaerans seem to have about cross-breeds, when there is, at the
moment, no other way to produce a Phoenix heir except through
cross-breeding. I may go into this at some point.)</p>

<p>In any case, at the tender age of one hundred or thereabouts she
came to Deathsgate Falls and passed, living, through the Paths of
the Dead and so came to the Halls of Judgment. There she took the
Orb from the shade of the last Emperor and returned to declare the
Interregnum at an end. This was about the time my
great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great grandfather was
being born.</p>

<p>That business about descending Deathsgate Falls, by the way, is
quite impressive. I know, because I&rsquo;ve done it myself.</p>

<p>But the point is that this background gave Zerika a certain
understanding of the human condition&mdash;or at least the
Dragaeran condition. She was wise and she was intelligent. She knew
that there was nothing to be gained by interfering in a duel
between Jhereg. On the other hand, I guess what Laris and I had
been doing to each other was too much to ignore.</p>

<p>We woke up the morning after the meeting with Terion to find the
streets patrolled by guards in Phoenix livery. Notices were posted
explaining that no one was allowed in the streets after nightfall,
that no groups of more than four could assemble, that all use of
sorcery would be carefully observed and regulated, that all taverns
and inns were shut down until further notice. There was also the
unspoken statement that no illegal activity of any kind would be
tolerated.</p>

<p>It was enough to make me want to move to a better
neighborhood.</p>
<br>
<p>&ldquo;Where do we stand, Kragar?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We can keep up like this&mdash;supporting everything and
not earning&mdash;for about seven weeks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you think this will last seven weeks?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. I hope not.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. We can&rsquo;t reduce our forces unless Laris does,
and we don&rsquo;t have any way of knowing if Laris will.
That&rsquo;s the worst part of it&mdash;this would be the perfect
time to start infiltrating his organization, but we can&rsquo;t
because he doesn&rsquo;t have anything running, either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar shrugged. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll just have to sit
tight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hmmmm. Maybe. Tell you what: why don&rsquo;t we find a
few places he&rsquo;s connected to that are legitimate&mdash;you
know, like restaurants&mdash;and make friends with some of the
management types.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Make friends?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure. Give them presents.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Presents?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Gold.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just give it to them?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. Not ask for anything. Have people hand them money,
and say it comes from me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He looked more puzzled than ever. &ldquo;What will that
do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, it works with court advisors, doesn&rsquo;t it? I
mean, isn&rsquo;t that the kind of thing the connections do? Just
maintain good relationships so that if they need something, people
will be well-disposed toward them? Why not try it here? It
can&rsquo;t do any harm.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It costs.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Screw that. It might work. If they like us, that makes it
more likely they&rsquo;ll tell us something. And maybe they can
tell us something useful. If not right away, then
someday.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s worth a try,&rdquo; he admitted.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Start out with five hundred, and spread it around a
bit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re the boss.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Next: we really should get some idea of when we can open
something up. Do you have any guesses at all? Days? Weeks? Months?
Years?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;At least days, maybe weeks. Remember&mdash;those guards
don&rsquo;t like this any more than we do. They&rsquo;ll be
fighting it from their end, and all the merchants who aren&rsquo;t
involved are going to be fighting it from <em>their</em> end. Also,
it goes without saying that all the organization contacts in the
Palace will be working on it. I don&rsquo;t think it can last more
than a month.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will it stop all at once, or gradually
disappear?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Could be either way, Vlad.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hmmph. Well, could we open, say, one game, in a
week?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They might let us get away with it. But once you open up
a game, what happens the first time a customer runs short of cash?
We need to have someone to lend him money. And then maybe he gets
behind on his payments, so he starts stealing. We need a cleaner.
Or&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t have a cleaner in any case.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m working on that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh. All right. But yes, I see your point. It&rsquo;s all
tied in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And there&rsquo;s another thing: whoever opens up is
going to be pretty nervous. That means that you should really make
personal visits&mdash;and that&rsquo;s dangerous.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;One thing we could do is find a new office. I can still
smell the smoke in here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We could, but&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;do you know where
Laris&rsquo;s office is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know, but he doesn&rsquo;t go there anymore. We
don&rsquo;t know where he is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But we know where his office is. Fine. That&rsquo;s where
my next office will be.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He looked startled, then shook his head. &ldquo;Nothing like
confidence,&rdquo; he said.</p>
<br>
<p>Narvane was in touch with me pretty constantly that week, and
was slowly getting a feel for the work. After what had happened to
Temek, he was being careful, but we were accumulating a list of
places and a few names.</p>

<p>I tried doing a small witchcraft spell on Laris, just to see if
there was any point in attacking him that way, but I got nothing.
That meant that he was protected against witchcraft&mdash;and
indicated that he really did know me, since most Dragaerans
don&rsquo;t think of the art as anything to bother with.</p>

<p>I had enforcers following those people we knew, trying to get
their movements down so we could use this information later. We
approached a couple of them with large sums, hoping to find out
where Laris was hiding, but we didn&rsquo;t get any takers.</p>

<p>The project to make friends with Laris&rsquo;s people went
better, although just as slowly. We got nothing useful, but there
were indications that we might in the future. I had some people
speak to the Phoenix Guards. We learned from them that they
weren&rsquo;t happy about the duty, didn&rsquo;t expect it to last
long, and that they were as impatient to start earning their
gambling money again as we were to start needing to pay them. I
considered the matter.</p>

<p>Six days after Zerika put her foot down, I met with Kragar and
Smiley Gilizar. Smiley had been protecting Nielar, and was pretty
much recovered from being revivified. He got his name because he
smiled almost as much as Varg&mdash;that is, not at all.</p>

<p>Varg, however, rarely had any expression. Smiley had a permanent
sneer. When he looked like he wanted to bite you in the leg, he was
happy. When he got angry, his face became contorted. He had picked
up an Eastern weapon called a lepip, which was a heavy metal bar
with leather wrapped around it to prevent cuts. When he
wasn&rsquo;t doing protection, he did muscle work. He&rsquo;d
started on the docks, collecting for a short-tempered lender called
Cerill. When Cerill was fed up with being reasonable, he&rsquo;d
send Smiley, and then send someone else the next day to reason with
whatever was left.</p>

<p>So Smiley sat there, scowling at Kragar and me, and I said,
&ldquo;Smiley, our friend H&rsquo;noc is going to open up his
brothel tomorrow evening. He&rsquo;s being protected by Abror and
Nephital. I want you to go over to help them out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He sneered even more, as if it were beneath him.</p>

<p>I knew him well enough to ignore this, however. I continued:
&ldquo;Stay out of the way of our customers, so you don&rsquo;t
scare them. And if the guards try to shut the place down, just let
them. Can you handle that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He snorted, which I took for a yes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay, be there at the eighth hour. That&rsquo;s
all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He left without a word. Kragar shook his head. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
amazed that you can get rid of him that easy, Vlad. You&rsquo;d
think you&rsquo;d have to do a demon banishment or
something.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shrugged. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s never &lsquo;worked,&rsquo; as far
as I know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar grunted. &ldquo;Anyway, we ought to know something by
tomorrow. Any word from Narvane?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not much. He&rsquo;s been going slow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I suppose. But he should at least be checking to see if
Laris is opening something.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I agreed. I got hold of Narvane and gave the necessary orders.
Then I sighed. &ldquo;I hate being in the dark like this. We have a
good groundwork for the future, but we still know hardly anything
about him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar nodded, then brightened. &ldquo;Vlad!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Morrolan!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Aren&rsquo;t you his security consultant? Doesn&rsquo;t
he have a spy network?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure, Kragar. And if you want to find out how many
sorcerers Lord Whointheheck of the House of the Dragon has, I could
tell you in three minutes, along with their specialties, ages, and
tastes in wine. But that doesn&rsquo;t help us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He got a vacant look, and said, &ldquo;There ought to be a way
to use that&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you think of one, let me know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I will.&rdquo;</p>

<p>H&rsquo;noc reached me late in the evening of the next day.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yes?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Just wanted to tell you that we haven&rsquo;t been
bothered by any guards yet.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Good. Customers?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Maybe two.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay. It&rsquo;s a start. Have you seen anyone who
looks like he might be working for Laris?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>How would I know?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>All right. Stay in touch.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I looked up at Kragar, who was spending more time in my office
than in his own these days. &ldquo;I just talked to H&rsquo;noc. No
problems; no customers.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded. &ldquo;If we make it through the night, maybe we
should open up a cleaner tomorrow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Who?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know a few thieves who&rsquo;ve been talking about
getting into that end.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In the middle of a war?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. Check into it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar found a cleaner, and we opened up a couple of nights
later. At the same time, Narvane found out that Laris wasn&rsquo;t
doing much of anything. We began to breathe easier. Soon, we
decided, the Phoenix Guards would just disappear, and things would
be back to normal.</p>

<p>Normal? Exactly what <em>was</em> &ldquo;normal&rdquo; at this
point?</p>

<p>&ldquo;Kragar, what happens when the Phoenix Guards
disappear?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Things go back to&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;oh. I see
what you mean. Well, in the first place, we&rsquo;re back on the
defensive. He starts moving in on us, we start trying to find out
all we can about him&mdash;and by the way, we should have more than
just Narvane working on that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know. We will, but&mdash;it seems to me that this is
our big chance to get ahead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;<em>what</em> is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;This. Now. When neither of us can attack the other, but
we can get our businesses going again. We should push it as far as
we can. Get as much going as possible, to build up some cash, and
make as many friends among Laris&rsquo;s people as we can, get
Narvane and whoever else we can digging into him&mdash;the whole
bit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar thought that over, then nodded. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re
right. We&rsquo;ve got the cleaner working, that means we can open
up a lender. Three days? Two?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Two. We&rsquo;re going to be paying extra bribes, but
that shouldn&rsquo;t go on too long.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right. And once that&rsquo;s going, we could start one of
the small shareba clubs. A week from today, say? If everything goes
well?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That sounds right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. And we won&rsquo;t need too much protection at
first. Let&rsquo;s put Wyrn and Miraf&rsquo;n helping Narvane. And
maybe Chimov and Glowbug, too. But keep them all on the rotation
for bodyguards.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not Chimov. I don&rsquo;t want any free-lancer knowing
too much about what I know. Make it N&rsquo;aal. He isn&rsquo;t
good at it, but he can learn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. I&rsquo;ll talk to them, and let Narvane in on
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. Are we leaving anything out?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Probably, but nothing I can think of.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then let&rsquo;s get at it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>It&rsquo;s going to be nice seeing you do some work
again, boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Shut up, Loiosh.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>It took Narvane only a couple of days to work the extra help
into his organization. The day the lender started, I began to get
reports from them, and was impressed. While they still didn&rsquo;t
know many of his people&mdash;and those they did were right at the
bottom&mdash;they found out seven establishments that Laris was
running. To our surprise, none of them had reopened. Laris was
lying low. I didn&rsquo;t know whether to be overjoyed or nervous.
But there were still Phoenix Guards all over the place, so we felt
safe.</p>

<p>A few days later, I opened up a small shareba game, and the next
day a game of s&rsquo;yang stones and a game of three-copper mud.
Our list on Laris grew, but he <em>still</em> wasn&rsquo;t doing
anything. I wondered what it meant.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey, Kragar.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How many Dzur does it take to sharpen a sword?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I dunno.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Four. One to sharpen it, three to put up enough of a
fight to make it worthwhile.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh. Is there some point to that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think so. I think it has something to do with needing
to have opposition in order to act.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hmmmm. Is this leading somewhere, or are you just being
obscure?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to take a walk. Who&rsquo;s protecting me
today?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A walk? Are you sure it&rsquo;s safe?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course not. Who&rsquo;s on duty?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wyrn, Miraf&rsquo;n, Varg, and Glowbug. What do you mean,
a walk?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to visit my businesses. Word will get
around that I did so, and that I&rsquo;m not worried about either
Laris or the Empire, customers will relax, and business will pick
up. True or not true?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re going to show that you aren&rsquo;t worried
by walking around with four bodyguards?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True or not true?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He sighed. &ldquo;True, I guess.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Call them in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He did so.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Stay here,&rdquo; I told him, &ldquo;and keep things
running.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We walked out of the office, past the ruins of the front of the
shop (I didn&rsquo;t dare let anyone close enough to me to let them
do repairs), and into the street. There were a pair of Phoenix
Guards at the northwest corner of Garshos and Copper Lane. We went
that way, Loiosh flying ahead, and I could feel their eyes on me.
We went east on Garshos to Dayland, and I was surprised that I
didn&rsquo;t see any others. We went to the cleaner&rsquo;s, which
was set up in the basement of an inn called The Six Chreotha, which
looked like it had been slowly falling to ruin for a few thousand
years.</p>

<p>I went in to see the cleaner. He was a cheery-looking guy named
Renorr: short, dark, with the curly brown hair and flat features
that claimed he had Jhegaala somewhere in his background. His eyes
were clear, which proved that he hadn&rsquo;t been in the business
long. Cleaning stolen goods is not something one can bribe Imperial
guards about, so one must be careful not to let them find out one
is doing it. Fences always end up with shifty, frightened eyes.</p>

<p>Renorr bowed and said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m honored to meet you at
last, lord.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I nodded.</p>

<p>He gestured outside. &ldquo;They seem to have left.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who? The guards?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes. There were several near here this
morning.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hmmm. Well, that&rsquo;s all to the good, then. Maybe
they&rsquo;re reducing their forces.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How&rsquo;s business?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Slow, lord. But picking up a bit. I&rsquo;m just getting
started.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay.&rdquo; I smiled at him. &ldquo;Keep it
going.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, lord.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We walked back out, continued to Glendon, followed it to Copper
Lane, and headed back north. As we walked past the Blue Flame I
stopped.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What is it, boss?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Those guards, Loiosh. There were two of them on that
corner fifteen minutes ago; now they&rsquo;re gone.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I don&rsquo;t like
this&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</em> &rdquo;</p>

<p>Glowbug said, &ldquo;Notice the guards are missing, boss?
That&rsquo;s a demon of a coincidence. I don&rsquo;t like
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Bide,&rdquo; I told him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I think we should get back to the office,
boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I don&rsquo;t think&mdash;</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Remember what you said about my
&lsquo;feelings&rsquo;? Well, this one is strong. I think we should
get back right away.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay, you&rsquo;ve talked me into it.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Back to the office,&rdquo; I told Glowbug. He seemed
relieved. Varg made no response whatsoever. Wyrn nodded, his eyes
dreamy, and his half-smile didn&rsquo;t change. Miraf&rsquo;n
nodded his great, shaggy head.</p>

<p>We went past the Blue Flame and I started to relax. We reached
the corner of Garshos and Copper, and Wyrn and Miraf&rsquo;n looked
down both ways carefully, then nodded. We went past the corner and
came into sight of my office. I heard a strange, shuffling sound
behind me, a false step, and spun in time to see Varg falling to
his knees, a look of shock on his face. With the corner of my eye I
saw Glowbug falling.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Look out, boss!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>For the briefest instant, I couldn&rsquo;t believe it was really
happening. I had known all along that my life was in danger, but I
hadn&rsquo;t really believed that I, Vlad Taltos, assassin, could
be taken out as easily as any Teckla on the street. But Glowbug was
down, and I saw the hilt of a dagger protruding from Varg&rsquo;s
back. He was still conscious, trying to crawl toward me, his mouth
working silently.</p>

<p>Then my reflexes took over, as I realized that I was still
alive, and that Wyrn and Miraf&rsquo;n would be covering me from
behind. I reached for my rapier as I tried to spot the
knife-thrower, and&mdash;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Behind you, boss!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I spun, and got a glimpse of Wyrn and Miraf&rsquo;n backing away
as a tall Dragaeran with&mdash;wait a minute. <em>Backing
away?</em> They were. They were watching me closely as they
carefully stepped backwards, away from the scene. Meanwhile, a tall
Dragaeran was coming at me, slowly and steadily, with a great sword
in her hands.</p>

<p>I changed my mind about the rapier and drew a throwing knife
with each hand. I wanted to get at least those two bastards who had
sold me out. Loiosh left my shoulder, flying into the face of the
assassin before me. That gave me the time I needed to take aim
and&mdash;</p>

<p>Something told me to dodge, so I did, to my right, as something
sharp scraped along the right side of my back. I spun, both daggers
flashing, and&mdash;</p>

<p>Loiosh screamed psionically as there was a ripping in my left
side, from behind. I realized that the assassin with the greatsword
had gotten past Loiosh. I felt a coldness, and I became aware that
there was a piece of steel actually <em>inside</em> of me, among my
bones and muscles and organs, and I felt sick. I ignored my desire
to turn that way, and found the one who had attacked from behind.
She was very short and held a pair of large fighting knives. She
was staring straight at me, dispassionately. The sword was taken
from my side with a sudden wrenching, and I found myself on my
knees. The assassin in front of me struck full forward, one knife
cutting across for my throat, the other thrusting for my chest. I
tried to force my arms up to parry&mdash;</p>

<p>And there was blood flowing from her mouth, and she was falling
at my feet. The knife she was slashing with scored a gash across my
chest. As she hit the ground, the other blade found a home in my
stomach. I heard flapping wings behind me and was pleased that
Loiosh was alive, as I waited for the sword-stroke from behind that
would finish me.</p>

<p>Instead, I heard a voice that sounded remarkably like
Aliera&rsquo;s, crying, &ldquo;You&mdash;you&rsquo;re a
Dragon!&rdquo; And the ringing sound of clashing steel. Somehow, I
twisted around as I fell, and saw that it was, indeed, Aliera,
wielding a great-sword that was taller than she was, and dueling
with the assassin. Watching them was Morrolan himself, fury on his
face, Blackwand in his hand. Aliera&rsquo;s blade swung high as the
assassin&rsquo;s cut low and Loiosh said,
&ldquo;<em>Twist!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I did, but not in time to prevent the other one, who was still
alive, from planting her dagger, to the hilt, in my kidney. There
was pain such as I had never felt before, and I screamed. A muscle
spasm jerked me to my knees and around and down, flat on my
stomach, on the blade that was already there, and I only wanted to
die quickly and have it over.</p>

<p>For an instant before I got my wish, my face was a few inches
from the other assassin&rsquo;s, blood still streaming from her
mouth, her eyes set in a look of grim determination. I suddenly
realized that she was an Easterner. That almost hurt more than the
rest of it, but then the pain went away, and me with it.</p>

<br>
<hr size="0">
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide6.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide8.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

