<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Silver Spike</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="spike.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide54.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide56.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">LIV</h2>

<p>The little critters was in and out so much I was sure the people
downstairs was going to find us out any minute. Bomanz and Silent
was having trouble enough keeping curiosity types away without
attracting the attention of the new big boy.</p>

<p>Raven was loving every minute of it. &ldquo;What the hell are
you grinning about?&rdquo; I demanded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Those guys with the spike. They got balls down to their
ankles.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hunh!&rdquo; He would appreciate their brass.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come on, Case. Look. One of them decides to cut a deal
for himself and winds up getting grabbed by Exile&rsquo;s boys for
his trouble. So what do his buddies do? Big rescue attempt, against
the odds? Hell, no. Before they get the guy halfway here one man
just casually trots through the escort and practically lops the
guy&rsquo;s head off. He does it so quick they can&rsquo;t get two
descriptions that agree no matter how many witnesses they ask. And
when the soldiers get riled and go after the killer, he offs two of
them and leaves the rest standing around with their thumbs in their
ears.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just your kind of fun-loving boy, eh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They have style, Case. I appreciate style. It&rsquo;s a
sort of bringing of artistry to even the most mundane&mdash;or
gruesome&mdash;things that have to be done. Bet you something. If
the man who made that hit had had five more minutes he would have
been wearing a Nightstalker uniform, just to mess with
people&rsquo;s minds. It&rsquo;s not the deed. It&rsquo;s how it
was done.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Here was a shade of the Raven of old. Maybe the shell was ready
to break. &ldquo;You think these guys are just having a good time,
sticking their tongues out at the world, yelling &lsquo;Catch us if
you can&rsquo;?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. You don&rsquo;t understand. They&rsquo;re probably
hiding out somewhere not fit for a pig. They&rsquo;re probably
hungry, filthy, scared, sure they&rsquo;re not going to get out of
it alive. But they&rsquo;re not letting it break them.
They&rsquo;re going right on clawing at the faces of the wolves and
vampires trying to feed on them. You see?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I agreed mostly because I didn&rsquo;t and if I admitted that
we&rsquo;d end up spending the whole day getting me lessons in
never surrender, even if the ground you&rsquo;re holding springs
from stupid or wrong.</p>

<p>Agreeing worked. He moved over and got into a discussion with
Silent and Darling. All business, I assume, since no sparks
flew.</p>

<p>I got into a conversation with Bomanz, who was trying to work
his way through some moral catch trap where the spike was
concerned. He had some questions that nobody had answers for. I
wasn&rsquo;t sure there were any answers. That spike was like a
drop of black dye plunked into a pool of already murky water,
spreading. It had poisoned Oar already. We had resisted it because
we knew about it and could think it away consciously. But what
would happen if our bunch got lucky and glommed on to it?</p>

<p>Scary.</p>

<p>And what the hell were we going to do with the damned thing if
we did get it? I never heard none of those clowns talk about that.
It was all keep the other guys from grabbing it and doing
dirty.</p>

<p>It sure as hell hadn&rsquo;t been safe where they left it
before.</p>

<p>I didn&rsquo;t have no ideas. Not that looked like they would
work. There wasn&rsquo;t no place in the world you could put it
that somebody else couldn&rsquo;t get it back from except maybe if
you dropped it in the deepest part of the ocean. And that probably
wouldn&rsquo;t do the job neither.</p>

<p>Some damned fish would probably gulp it down before it sank ten
feet, then the fish would beach itself or get hooked by some
goddamned fisherman with a hidden talent for sorcery and a secret
lust for conquest.</p>

<p>That&rsquo;s the nature of evil talismans.</p>

<p>My best notions were to get a bunch of sorcerers together who
could elevate it to the outer realm and stick in on a passing comet
or to have a bunch break a little hole through to another plane,
pop the spike through, and plug the hole.</p>

<p>Both ways was just cheaters that put the problem off on somebody
else. The people of the future when the comet came back or the
people of the other plane.</p>

<p>I had been picking up bits of the sign exchanges between Raven,
Darling, and Silent, without paying much attention, just like you
can&rsquo;t help catching snatches of a nearby conversation when it
don&rsquo;t really interest you. Raven was getting antsy. He was
finger grumbling about all this sitting around waiting for
something to happen instead of getting out and making it
happen.</p>

<p>He was on his way back all right. That was the old Raven. You
got a problem you kill somebody or at least beat the shit out of
them.</p>

<p>I was almost tempted to yell, &ldquo;Hey!&rdquo; when I caught
him voluteering me and him to go look around the landscape where
the morning&rsquo;s excitement had taken place. I choked it. Why
let the boys downstairs know we were here when Darling could tell
him to go soak his head?</p>

<p>Treacherous witch.</p>

<p>She thought it was a great idea. We should drag Bomanz along,
just in case a wizard might turn up handy.</p>

<p>Silent grinned all the way around his face. The prick saw
himself talking his talk and making his pitch every second we were
gone.</p>

<p>I decided I was going for the head recruiter&rsquo;s job if I
was going to get stuck as a Rebel for life. The movement could use
a few more women. And a few soldiers who weren&rsquo;t screwballs,
too.</p>

<p>With a little illusion help from Bomanz we just went downstairs
and strutted out the front door, walking like we belonged there.
Like Raven said, if we didn&rsquo;t belong we
wouldn&rsquo;t&rsquo;ve been in there in the first place. Would
we?</p>

<p>Balls and style. That&rsquo;s my buddy Raven.</p>

<p>They had carted the body off with all the others but we had no
trouble finding the place. There was blood all over and a crowd of
kids still hanging around telling each other all about it.</p>

<p>Raven only gave the stains a glance. Bomanz had no use for that
scene either. He wasn&rsquo;t looking for dead men.</p>

<p>We strolled down the alley the killer had used to make his
escape. I was surprised they didn&rsquo;t have soldiers watching,
though I couldn&rsquo;t imagine who they&rsquo;d think they&rsquo;d
be laying for, either. It just seemed like something some officer
would think was a dandy thing to do. If what officers use their
heads for is to think.</p>

<p>The place where the two soldiers got killed was a little harder
to find because of all the dark. That alley was a creepy place. It
felt like it never got light in there. Like a place where people
didn&rsquo;t belong at all. A place already claimed by other
things, impatient with our intrusion.</p>

<p>Weird thoughts. I shivered.</p>

<p>Maybe the shades of the murdered soldiers were hanging
around.</p>

<p>Then Bomanz conjured up a ball of light and hung it out
overhead. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s better,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It got
spooky for a minute, there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He was good for something after all.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah,&rdquo; Raven said. They started poking around.
There wasn&rsquo;t a whole lot to see. I went over to a rubble pile
to sit and wait them out. A fat rat sauntered past without so much
as a nod to intimidation by a superior species. I chucked a hunk of
broken brick at him.</p>

<p>He stopped and eyeballed me over his shoulder, red eyes glowing.
Arrogant little sucker. I grabbed another hunk of brick and this
time put some arm behind it.</p>

<p>He charged me.</p>

<p>Rabid! I thought, and tried to scramble up the pile while
grabbing a broken board to beat him off. The pile collapsed. I went
sliding down, kicking and cussing. The rat zagged out, to be seen
no more. He took him a good brag to hand his buddies.</p>

<p>Raven got a big chuckle out of the whole thing. &ldquo;Hail, O
Mighty Hunter, Terror of Ratkind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Stuff it.&rdquo; I rolled me over and saw about a square
foot of raggedy-ass canvas peeking out of the rubble pile. I had me
a stroke of cunning. I stood up, dusted me off, and sat back down.
They went back to their sniffing around. I dug the thing out,
decided it was somebody&rsquo;s backpack, then decided it might be
why our villain had made a stand here when all he really needed to
do was duck through that hole and leave the soldiers sucking
dust.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What have you got there?&rdquo; Raven yelled when he
noticed. Bomanz didn&rsquo;t say nothing but his beady little eyes
lit right up.</p>

<p>They caught on quick. Raven wanted to open the pack right there.
Bomanz told him, &ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t the place. Anybody could
come along.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Raven thought about sneaking into the building the killer had
used to make his getaway. Great idea, only somebody had boarded up
the hole from inside. &ldquo;Guess we might as well take it back to
the temple,&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>The soldiers were waiting for us at the end of the alley. There
were a dozen of them and they were ready for trouble. We
would&rsquo;ve walked right into them if we hadn&rsquo;t had a tame
wizard along to sniff them out.</p>

<p>We backed off to talk. Bomanz supposed all the exits from the
maze of alleys would be covered by now. Pretty soon they would come
in after us. He could get us out right now but that would take so
much flash and show it would get Exile all twisted out of
shape.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Over the rooftops, then,&rdquo; Raven said. Like it was
obvious and easy.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Great idea. But I&rsquo;m an old man. Sneaking up on five
hundred. A wizard, not a monkey.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Give him the pack, Case. He can cover his own butt and
get it home to Mama. We&rsquo;ll play tag with the
soldiers.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Say what? Oh. Yeah. Sure. You&rsquo;re the guy with
style.
You play tag with them.&rdquo; But I took the pack off. Bomanz
wiggled into it. It was too big for him.</p>

<p>Softly, he told me, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t take silly chances.
She&rsquo;ll want you to come back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Chills up the spine, and some more thoughts about what kind of a
crazy man was I, being here in the first place. Potato farming
never looked so good.</p>

<p>I don&rsquo;t know if Raven heard. He didn&rsquo;t give no sign.
We went off and found a way up to the roofs, which was a crazy
country of steep pitches, flats, chimneys, slate, copper, tile,
thatch, and shingle. Like no two builders ever used the same
materials. We stumbled and clunked around and did our damnedest to
fall off and break a head or a leg, but something always got in the
way.</p>

<p>I might have been better off if I&rsquo;d busted my bean.</p>

<p>For a while it didn&rsquo;t look like hunking around on the
roofs was going to do no good. Whenever we took a peek to see if it
was safe, there was some soldiers hanging out. But just when I
asked Raven, &ldquo;How do you like pigeon? &rsquo;Cause it looks
like we&rsquo;re going to spend the rest of our lives up
here,&rdquo; some kind of hoorah broke out back about where we left
the old wizard and every soldier in sight headed that way.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;That silly sack probably did something subtle
like turn somebody into a toad.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Must you always be negative, Case?&rdquo; Raven was
having him a good time.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Me? Negative? The gods forfend! I&rsquo;ve never had a
negative thought in my life. Where did you get a notion like
that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s clear. Drop on down there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>On down there was a two-story fall to a rough cobblestone
landing. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re shitting me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then you go first so I can land on you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You are in a contrary mood, aren&rsquo;t you? Go
on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, thank you. I&rsquo;ll just go find me a place where I
can climb down.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Maybe I crowded it a little. He gave me a nasty look and said,
&ldquo;All right. You do what you have to do. But I&rsquo;m not
going to hang around waiting for you to catch up.&rdquo; He rolled
over the edge of the roof, hung down, kicked out, let go.</p>

<p>I know he done it just to give me some shit. And he got what he
asked for, showing off. He sprained an ankle. When he slowed down
cussing and fussing enough, I told him, &ldquo;You hang on right
there. I&rsquo;ll be there in a minute.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I wasn&rsquo;t, of course.</p>

<p>I cut across a couple roofs and found a way to climb down into
the street parallel to the one where I left Raven. I hitched up my
pants and headed around the corner into the nearest cross
street&mdash;and ran smack into a whole gang of gray boys.</p>

<p>Their sergeant laughed. &ldquo;God damn! Here&rsquo;s one so
eager he came running.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I guess I didn&rsquo;t react too well. I just stood there
gawking for about five seconds too long. When my feet finally
decided it was time to get moving it was too late. There was five
of them around me. They had nightsticks and mean grins. They meant
business. The sergeant told me, &ldquo;Fall in with the rest of the
recruits, soldier.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I eyeballed about ten numb-looking guys in a bunch, most of them
looking the worse for wear. &ldquo;What is this
bullshit?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He chuckled. &ldquo;You just enlisted. Second Battalion, Second
Regiment, Oar Home Defense Forces.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Like hell.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You want to argue about it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I looked at his buddies. They were ready. And I wasn&rsquo;t
going to get no help from the other &ldquo;recruits.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not right now. We&rsquo;ll talk it over later,
one-on-one.&rdquo; I gave him my best imitation of Raven&rsquo;s
I&rsquo;m-going-to-make-a-necklace-out-of-your-toes look. He got
the idea.</p>

<p>He wanted to try some bluster but he just said, &ldquo;Fall in.
And don&rsquo;t give us no shit. We ain&rsquo;t no more excited
about this than you are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>So that was how I got me back into the army.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide54.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide56.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

