<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Silver Spike</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="spike.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide41.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide43.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">XLI</h2>

<p>Smeds came out onto the porch of the Skull and Crossbones
figuring to shoot the shit with Fish, but found the only empty
chair stood between Fish and the Nightcrawler corporal. He wanted
to turn around but felt like he was committed.</p>

<p>He plopped down. &ldquo;Hey, Corp. Don&rsquo;t you never do
nothing but sit here and drink beer?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not if I can help it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s the life. I oughta go sign up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah? You wouldn&rsquo;t like it. Where was you at three
in the morning?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In bed sleeping one off.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Lucky you. Ask me where I was at three in the
morning.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where were you at three in the morning?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;With about two hundred others guys out Shant, where they
got all those buildings tore down and nothing new put up yet.
Looking for a monster. Some guy reported there was a monster out
there bigger than the Civil Palace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Was there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not even a little one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Was the guy drunk?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Would a sober man be out there at that time of
night?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Got something interesting coming here,&rdquo; Fish
interjected, jutting his chin up the street.</p>

<p>Smeds saw three men and a woman. She was not much to look at and
too old to be interesting anyway. But she looked tough. She carried
weapons like a man.</p>

<p>As a bunch they looked as hard and tough as any Smeds had seen.
But what made them stand out was the zoo they carried with
them.</p>

<p>The woman had a live ferret draped around her neck and chipmunks
peeking out of her pockets. The tall, dark, and darkly clad man who
walked to her right carried an unhooded falcon on his left
shoulder. The three men behind them&mdash;Smeds thought they might
be brothers&mdash;carried a bunch of monkeys and one big snake.</p>

<p>Smeds asked, &ldquo;You going to arrest them? They&rsquo;re
lugging enough illegal hardware to start their own war.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And give you boys a show? Eh? My mama&rsquo;s stupid
babies never lived to make corporal.&rdquo; Even so, he stuck his
fingers in this mouth and whistled. When those people looked he
beckoned.</p>

<p>The tall man looked over with tight eyes for a moment, made a
slight gesture at the man with the snake. That one came over. The
snake looked them over like it was sizing them up for dinner. It
gave Smeds the creeps.</p>

<p>The corporal said, &ldquo;Just a friendly word of advice, pal.
The city is under martial law. Ain&rsquo;t nobody supposed to tote
a blade over eight inches long. &rsquo;Less he&rsquo;s wearing
gray.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The snake man went back and told the tall man, who looked at the
corporal hard for a moment, then nodded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You see that?&rdquo; Smeds said. &ldquo;That goddamned
monkey gave us the finger.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The corporal said, &ldquo;I seen that tall guy somewhere before.
Down the length of a sword. Hunh! Well. Bucket&rsquo;s empty. Save
my chair while I walk my lizard and get me a refill.&rdquo; He went
inside.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What you think of that bunch?&rdquo; Smeds asked
Fish.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve seen the tall one before, too. In the same
circumstances as the corporal. A long time ago. No problem
remembering where or when, either, since I was only ever in one
battle.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That just puzzled Smeds. He asked, &ldquo;You figure
they&rsquo;re here after the dingus, too?&rdquo; He could ask
because by now everyone in town had a good idea what was going
on.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re here for it, yes. They&rsquo;ll help make
the game interesting.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;re you yapping about, Fish?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t mind me, boy. Just an old man maundering. Ha!
I thought so. Isn&rsquo;t there anymore, is it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Down the street the animals people had stopped in front of a
place Timmy said used to be a butcher shop but these days was just
another dump filled up with squatters. The tall man glanced back as
though he had heard Fish. Then the whole bunch moved on,
indifferent to stares.</p>

<p>The corporal came back out with his full pail and bladder empty.
&ldquo;I ought to give this shit up. Bothers my stomach.&rdquo; He
took a drink. &ldquo;Where were we?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Fish said, &ldquo;I was just going to ask you when they&rsquo;re
going to unbutton the gates. Going to start getting hungry in here
now the fanners won&rsquo;t bring anything in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They don&rsquo;t consult me on policy, Pop. But
I&rsquo;ll tell you something. I don&rsquo;t think those two
bitches give a rat&rsquo;s ass if everybody in Oar starves. They
ain&rsquo;t going to go hungry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Smeds was tired of listening to the corporal. &ldquo;Going to
get me something to drink.&rdquo; He went inside and had a beer
drawn, wondered how long the supply would last. And how much more
patience the people of Oar had. A while, for sure. Not that many
were hurting yet. But if circumstances did not change a big blowup
was inevitable.</p>

<p>Timmy Locan came in, got him a beer, stood beside Smeds awhile
without saying anything, then suggested, &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go for
a walk when we finish these.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. I need the exercise.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When they were well away from the Skull and Crossbones, passing
through a construction area where they were unlikely to be
overheard, Smeds asked, &ldquo;Well? What&rsquo;s up?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You remember that doc that looked at my hand when we
first came back?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo; More than a twinge of guilt. He and Fish had
not told the others what they had done. Tully was so indifferent he
had not noticed that the physician and wizard were no longer among
the living. Timmy had noticed, though, and Smeds supposed he had
some definite suspicions about two such coincidental and convenient
murders. &ldquo;What about him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It looks like he got whatever it was that I had and
passed it around to everybody who came to see him. And they passed
it on, too. Not like the plague or probably everybody would have it
by now. But there&rsquo;s a couple hundred people got it already.
The ones that have had it the longest&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;
Well, they&rsquo;re worse off than I was. Yesterday a woman who had
it killed herself. This morning a guy whose whole arm had gone
black killed four of his kids who had it before he killed
himself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s awful. That&rsquo;s really gruesome. But it
isn&rsquo;t anything we can do anything about.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know that. But the thing is, see, the grays have gotten
interested. They&rsquo;re grilling everybody with the black stuff.
From the questions they&rsquo;re asking you can tell they think
there&rsquo;s a connection with the spike. They&rsquo;re trying
real hard to find out about everybody who&rsquo;s had it and done
something about it, like me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think you need to worry, Timmy. They
can&rsquo;t trace it back to you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah? Those bitches are serious, Smeds. What happens
after they find out all the trails lead back to that doc, who
turned up among the dead right after the stuff started spreading?
They&rsquo;re going to figure he had a fatal accident on account of
somebody he treated didn&rsquo;t want to be remembered. And they
already know the only way to treat the stuff is to cut off whatever
it&rsquo;s eating on. So pretty soon the word goes out to the grays
to grab amputees. Especially guys with missing hands.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe you got a point. Maybe we better see what Fish
thinks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Fish agreed with Timmy. There was no reason to think Gossamer
and Spidersilk would not go so far are to order the arrest of all
amputees. They were determined.</p>

<p>Fish did some heavy thinking. &ldquo;I reckon it&rsquo;s time to
blow some smoke.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What do you mean?&rdquo; Smeds asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This situation&mdash;the whole city sealed up like a
bottle&mdash;can&rsquo;t go on forever. There&rsquo;ll be a
blowup. When that comes we break loose with everybody else. Till
then we buy time by getting them off on a wild-goose chase, or by
taking advantage of the potential for chaos they&rsquo;ve
created.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Smeds was bewildered. He grew more so when Fish said, &ldquo;Get
rid of whatever you&rsquo;ve got that&rsquo;s silver. Get gold or
copper or jewels or whatever, but get rid of your silver. Smeds,
you pass the word to Tully and don&rsquo;t let him give you any
shit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s going on?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just do it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>So they did. Even Tully, who had become reasonably serious and
responsive since Fish&rsquo;s demonstration of the deadly power of
the loose word.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide41.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide43.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

