<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Bleak Seasons</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="bleak.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide45.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide47.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">44</h2>

<p>Goblin caught me hitting the Jaicuri books.
&ldquo;Murgen!&rdquo; I started. &ldquo;Huh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;About goddamn time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? What&rsquo;re you talking about?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I been standing here watching you for ten minutes. You
never turned a page. You never blinked an eye. I couldn&rsquo;t
tell if you was breathing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I started to make an excuse.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Won&rsquo;t sell. I had to yell four times and slap you
on the back of the head to get your attention.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So I was thinking.&rdquo; Only I could not recall even
one thought.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. Right. Mogaba wants your scrawny ass over to the
citadel.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A lot of southerners have sneaked off to meet this relief
column,&rdquo; I told Mogaba. &ldquo;At first I thought they were
trying to trick us. Pull back and hit us when we tried to take
advantage. But Goblin and One-Eye promise me they&rsquo;ve just
kept going. There can&rsquo;t be a relief army, though. Where would
the soldiers come from? Who would lead them?&rdquo; Would Mogaba
believe that I had not heard the more interesting rumors? He heard
more than I did. And Croaker&rsquo;s survival probably figured in a
lot of those.</p>

<p>What would he do if the Old Man turned up alive?</p>

<p>I was pretty sure Mogaba thought about that a lot.</p>

<p>I was thanked and told to return to my people with no other
comment. I did not find out why he sent for me.</p>

<p>Mogaba did just what I feared. He launched a recon in force,
maybe trying to find new weak spots. He employed only his own most
trustworthy men. And I was content to sit atop my part of the wall,
watching. And wondering why Mogaba was so sure we would desert if
we got outside.</p>

<p>I tend to ignore Mogaba here. He was a much greater part of
everyday life than I show. He was misery on the hoof. My dislike
makes it impossible to write about the man rationally so I discuss
him only when I must.</p>

<p>Of all the Nar, in those days, only Sindawe ever made the effort
to be civil.</p>

<p>Anyway, Mogaba thought he had a chance to hurt the Shadowmaster
but the planners outside were getting the hang of how his head
worked. He did not let a lack of success discourage him. There was
that about Mogaba. He never became discouraged. No setback ever
shook his conviction that he was invincible. If his plans fizzled
he just recalculated.</p>

<p>Mogaba&rsquo;s soldiers began to desert without benefit of
escape from the city, coming to hide out with friends among our
Taglians. They complained that Mogaba was too profligate with
soldiers&rsquo; lives.</p>

<p>Mogaba responded by ordering special rations and preferential
access to prostitutes for his most dedicated men.</p>

<p>We found those sealed jars of grain left over from the
Shadowmasters&rsquo; first siege. Whether to share generated
considerable debate. One-Eye insisted that Mogaba would not be
satisfied just to share. He would want to know all about our find.
He would want to see for himself. Did we want him wandering around
our warrens?</p>

<p>No.</p>

<p>So what does the little shit do? He turns right around and
starts selling fresh-baked bread for twenty times what a loaf cost
before the siege.</p>

<p>I found a nice quiet spot for just One-Eye and me, atop the wall
on a lazy afternoon. There were fresh rumors of a battle up north
but that was not our topic. I asked, &ldquo;What did you tell me
about why we shouldn&rsquo;t let Mogaba share the stores we
found?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh?&rdquo; This was not the hassle he expected.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You were extremely persuasive. All that stuff about not
letting the man get into our hideout.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He grinned, proud of himself. &ldquo;So?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You stand by what you said?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then what the fuck are you doing selling his men bread
when we&rsquo;re not supposed to have no grain to grind for
flour?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He frowned. The connection eluded him. &ldquo;Making a
profit?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You really figure Mogaba is so stupid he won&rsquo;t
notice that bread? You really figure he won&rsquo;t ask
questions?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You got too rigid a way of looking at things,
Kid.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You keep up your crap you&rsquo;re really going to think
rigid. You get me killed I&rsquo;m going to haunt your ass
forever.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You probably would. There&rsquo;s times I think
you&rsquo;re halfway a haunt already.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s that supposed to mean?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;These spells you have. When you have them it&rsquo;s like
there&rsquo;s somebody else looking out from behind your eyes.
It&rsquo;s like there&rsquo;s some other soul swirling around
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I never noticed.&rdquo; Would I notice?</p>

<p>&ldquo;If we had us a skilled necromancer or a spirit talker we
might be surprise what we found. You wasn&rsquo;t born twins, was
you?&rdquo; His stare was fierce.</p>

<p>A chill stalked my spine. The hairs on my neck stirred. I did
feel spooky, sometimes. But he was just trying to change the
subject.</p>

<p>Goblin joined us uninvited. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s something going
on with the Shadowlanders, Murgen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>A crow nearby made a sound like laughter. I asked, &ldquo;They
aren&rsquo;t setting up for another big attack? I thought Mogaba
screwed their main ramp.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I couldn&rsquo;t get close enough to catch any details.
Mogaba is staying out where people can see him. But I think there
was a battle. And I think Shadowspinner&rsquo;s creeps got whipped.
We may have friends out there ready to bust us out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Calm down. Don&rsquo;t start packing your gear.&rdquo;
One-Eye snickered. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s the runt all over, counting
his chickens when he ain&rsquo;t even stole no eggs yet.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I grumbled, &ldquo;You remember what we were just discussing?
Stupid moves? And you&rsquo;d dare get down on Goblin?&rdquo; Of
course he would. That was his great mission. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
going on?&rdquo; Goblin demanded. Uncle Doj materialized. His
presence ended the discussion. That man could be spookier than any
shade, he moved so fast and quiet. &ldquo;Speaker says tell you
southerners carrying tools instead of weapons are assembling south
of the city.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And what&rsquo;s that over there?&rdquo; From our perch
most of the activity was hidden behind the curve of the wall but it
looked like a big engineering party had begun to gather north of
the city as well. &ldquo;You see any prisoners or slaves out
there&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;? Huh?</p>

<p>What&rsquo;s that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>That was the sparkle of sunlight off metal in the hills. The
sparkle repeated itself. People were moving out there, not
carefully enough.</p>

<p>Shadowspinner&rsquo;s men had no need to sneak. I told Goblin,
&ldquo;Pass the word. Full alert come sundown.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Uncle Doj considered the hills. &ldquo;You have good eyes, Bone
Warrior.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Know something, Stubby? I&rsquo;d a whole lot rather be
called Murgen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The squat man smiled thinly. &ldquo;As you wish, Murgen. I have
come on behalf of the Speaker. He says tell you hard times are
coming. He says prepare your hearts and minds.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hard times?&rdquo;</p>

<p>One-Eye laughed. &ldquo;The party is over, Kid. Now we got to
pay for loafing around and getting fat while the houris slithered
all over us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Keep it in mind next time you&rsquo;re tempted to do some
profiteering.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You can&rsquo;t eat money, One-Eye.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Killjoy.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s me all over. Tell Wheezer to hike over to
the citadel and tell Sindawe the southerners are up to
something.&rdquo; Sindawe might be all right. I could talk to him
without having to conquer an urge to squeeze his throat. And this
would cover me on keeping Mogaba informed.</p>

<p>What would happen if the Shadowmaster just up and walked away,
leaving us to sort ourselves out?</p>

<p>Sounded like the smart thing for him to do.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide45.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide47.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

