<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide64.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide66.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">63</h2>

<p>The light in Longshadow&rsquo;s crystal chamber seemed brilliant
enough to hurt fleshly eyes. Magically created, it came from
everywhere at once and left no place at all where a wild shadow
might lurk. The few furnishings up there were smooth and rounded
and left no little pockets or crevasses or corners where even a
pinhead of untamed darkness might come to life.</p>

<p>No feral shadow was going to sneak up on him.</p>

<p>Longshadow seemed to have changed clothing and even bathed in
preparation for the night&rsquo;s events. Certainly he wore a new
mask, black and silver with inlays of cyan, cardinal, and a
particularly intense dark green. The patterns on the mask altered
every time I looked. I told myself when I got a minute I ought to
go back and have a look at Longshadow making himself over. He had
not done anything like this ever before.</p>

<p>Narayan Singh and the girl arrived only moments before I did. I
determined that by a quick dip into the past. Longshadow asked,
&ldquo;Where is Howler?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Singh shrugged. The girl reacted as though Longshadow had not
spoken at all. Singh said, &ldquo;We have not seen him in
days.&rdquo; Which was an outright lie.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He should be here. I warned him to be here. For his own
safety.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The girl sat down on the floor, cross-legged. She paid the
Shadowmaster no mind whatsoever. Singh probably had had to badger
her to get her to leave her writing.</p>

<p>Curious, I did a dash back in time. And got surprised. I found
the child hurrying Singh. &ldquo;We must be there in
time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I went back some more. I found the child in that trancelike
state where she claimed to be in touch with Kina. Certainly the
odor of Kina was strong. I got out of there before I attracted her
attention. She had not paid me much mind lately and I liked that
just fine.</p>

<p>I took a couple of quick dips into times nearby and concluded
that Narayan and his ward had responded to Longshadow&rsquo;s
summons because Kina had told them to respond. Interesting. But
what did it mean?</p>

<p>When I got back to present time I found the Howler puffing his
way up the last spiral of stairs to Longshadow&rsquo;s chamber. The
Shadowmaster had sensed his approach and had faced the entrance.
The smelly little wizard appeared, let out a shriek before the
Shadowmaster could start giving him a hard time. It sounded almost
amused.</p>

<p>Longshadow turned away although he had been suffering a bad case
of the nags lately. He seemed to be in such a good mood that he was
willing to overlook petty transgressions. He said, &ldquo;Good.
We&rsquo;re all here. Now we go ahead with the game the way I
should have played it from the beginning.&rdquo; He sounded
slightly puzzled, as though, suddenly like every man and woman in
the army besieging him he wondered why he had done so little for so
long. He acted as if a powerful psychic wind had torn away a dense
fog that had gripped his mind for ages.</p>

<p>I suspected that was close to the truth. I could not identify
the villain but I was sure that one of our nastier female players,
most likely Kina, had reached him somehow long ago and had been
blunting his sword ever since. If I was right I had to admire the
subtlety of it. Longshadow had not worked it out. That might be
because the manipulation had been limited to dumbing him down and
exaggerating his natural prejudices and bull-headedness.</p>

<p>I recalled that he had had a few sharp spells. Things had not
gone well for us during those interludes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Close the door, Deceiver.&rdquo; The Shadowmaster&rsquo;s
voice was strong. &ldquo;There must be no interruptions.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Howler seated himself on a tall stool. I gathered that it had
been brought in for him specifically, back when he first attached
himself to the Shadowmaster. He did not use it often but no one
else used it ever. He and Longshadow were not the sort of
colleagues who watched over one another&rsquo;s shoulders, sharing
suggestions and expertise.</p>

<p>The Shadowmaster had done some housekeeping. Usually his chamber
contained an arsenal of magical gewgaws, all laid out
strategically. Most of those were absent tonight. Maybe Longshadow
did not want to test the honesty of his guests.</p>

<p>After some nervous shuffling Narayan Singh assumed a protective
stance beside the Daughter of Night. I noted a triangle of black
silk peeping from the top of his loincloth. He had dressed formally
tonight, then. That would be his strangling cloth, his rumel.</p>

<p>&ldquo;In more normal times,&rdquo; Longshadow said, &ldquo;I
would go out to the Shadowgate personally and employ the traps
there to collect the shadows I want to use. To obtain the best
effect they have to be trained. Once they are properly trained they
will leave their friends alone. The skrinsa can employ them without
troubling me. But these are not normal times.&rdquo;</p>

<p>No. They were not. And when he mentioned the shadowweavers I
began to wonder if he knew just how bad off he was when it came to
followers. At no time had he ever had much contact with those who
managed the daily business of his fortress. He gave orders. They
got executed. Only a handful of his people had survived
Lady&rsquo;s last attack. They continued to care for him. Howler
had seen to that.</p>

<p>He no longer had any shadowweavers to manage any trained shadows
he might have.</p>

<p>On the other hand&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>At one time there had been a crystal chamber atop a tower every
seventy feet along Overlook&rsquo;s southern wall. Inside each was
a mirror that could be used to cast the light there in a beam onto
the ground surrounding the road down from the Shadowgate. It had
taken a couple of men to aim each mirror.</p>

<p>Longshadow did something by moving small figurines in a
collection on a table, as though making multiple moves in a board
game. He said a single word.</p>

<p>The lights in the surviving tower tops waxed brilliant. Light
beams reached out across the night. Like accusing fingers they
swung to point in the general area of Croaker&rsquo;s Old Division.
They did not light up the slope nearly as well as they had in
former times but I was impressed. They did their jobs without the
aid of one human hand.</p>

<p>The others there were impressed, too. Narayan seemed a little
troubled, the Howler suddenly restless. Longshadow did not notice.
He moved on to his next step. He said, &ldquo;The lights are
unnecessary to coming events. I just thought it would be amusing if
our enemies watched one another scream their lives out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He giggled.</p>

<p>Howler sat up straight as a spear, suddenly alert. He did not
like the way things were going.</p>

<p>Maybe Longshadow was not as big a fool as everyone thought.</p>

<p>I spent a moment too long watching the girl for a reaction.
Smoke did his she is the darkness reaction and started to back off.
I held him. We were about to witness some excitement.</p>

<p>Longshadow stepped up to the big crystal sphere standing on a
pedestal at the center of the chamber. His audience watched
carefully, nervously. This was not something he had done in front
of witnesses before. I doubted they knew what the sphere was.</p>

<p>The globe was four feet in diameter. What looked like little
tunnels followed wormtracks in to a hollow place at its center. As
Longshadow stepped closer shimmering light rippled over its
surface, like oil on water but much more intense. Snakes of cold
fire wriggled through the channels inside. It was a hell of a
show.</p>

<p>Longshadow raised his spidery hands. Carefully, he removed his
gloves and pushed up his sleeves. The skin he revealed seemed both
translucent and pus-colored, with speckles of blue beneath, like
cheese. He had a fine crop of liver spots. There was almost no
flesh on him at all.</p>

<p>The Shadowmaster rested his hands on the surface of the sphere.
The lights inside became excited. The surface shimmer climbed his
fingers, covered his hands. His fingers sank into the globe like
hot rods slowly melting their way into ice. He grabbed the worms of
light and began twisting.</p>

<p>He began to talk in a conversational sort of voice, of course
using a language that nobody recognized though the Daughter of
Night frowned and leaned forward as though she was able to puzzle
out a word here and there.</p>

<p>The Shadowmaster summoned a shadow. I could not see it. It was
inside the pedestal supporting the globe. But I felt it. There was
not much to it but it was very, very cold.</p>

<p>The Howler dropped to the floor and leaned closer to watch.
Narayan and the Daughter of Night stared, bemused. The kid took a
few steps forward. Singh moved closer to the door, for a better
angle of view.</p>

<p>Longshadow spoke for several minutes, his eyes closed tightly.
As he finished the brightness inside the globe began to fade. He
opened his eyes and stared out southward as he had done ten
thousand times before, watching the area illuminated by the
mirrors.</p>

<p>She is the darkness! I was not looking at the
brat&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Not that darkness.</p>

<p>A very special darkness. A surprise darkness that should not
have caught me that far off guard, considering. Soulcatcher.</p>

<p>She stepped in through a door opened by Narayan Singh as though
she had been about to knock.</p>

<p>Longshadow was not ready for this. Not at all. He was
surrounded, totally betrayed, before he realized Catcher had
arrived.</p>

<p>I clung there with all the power I had to resist Smoke&rsquo;s
terror. The little shit whined and repeated she is the darkness!
like that was some mantra against the fangs of the night.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The game ends,&rdquo; Soulcatcher said in the booming,
basso voice of a crier in an amphitheater. Then she giggled like a
teenaged girl. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s been hard work but worth it. I
really like my new house.&rdquo; Both those sentences arrived in
the voice of a little old man who keeps account books.</p>

<p>Longshadow was caught, trapped, pinned like a butterfly on a
collector&rsquo;s display board. He was surrounded, outnumbered,
and did not have a chance even if he was the greatest wizard who
ever lived. Which he was not. Even so, he did not surrender.</p>

<p>He knew his value. His mind was not clouded. She dared not kill
him because the Shadowgate would collapse.</p>

<p>I had to give in to Smoke. I had to get this news back fast.</p>

<p>I really needed to get it to Lady fastest but there was no
way.</p>

<p>Longshadow moved slowly to pick up his gloves. As he began to
pull one on, Soulcatcher said, &ldquo;I think not.&rdquo; Her voice
was the velvet tenor of a tombstone salesman. &ldquo;In fact,
it&rsquo;s time&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Longshadow&rsquo;s right pinky was crooked, as though it had
been broken and badly set a long time ago. The nail looked like a
bit of rotten, dried out, blackened spinach leaf.</p>

<p>The Shadowmaster flicked that little finger.</p>

<p>The nail flew off just as Catcher said,
&ldquo;&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;
time&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shook my ghostly head. You never see everything.</p>

<p>In one eyeblink that nail became a shadow filled with hatred for
the light.</p>

<p>Smoke&rsquo;s wriggling became irresistible.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide64.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide66.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

