<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Water Sleeps</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="water.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide11.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide13.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">11</h2>

<p class="noindent"><span class="dropcap">T</span>hese were
exciting times. I found myself eager to be up and outside, where
things were happening. The impact of our boldness would have
reached every cranny of the city by now. I gobbled cold rice and
listened to Tobo complain, again, that his father had paid him no
attention.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is there something I can do about that, Tobo?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Unless you think I can go back there and tell him to
shape up and talk to his kid, you&rsquo;re wasting your time and
mine bitching about it. Where&rsquo;s your mother?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She left for work. A long time ago. She said they&rsquo;d
be suspicious if she didn&rsquo;t show up today.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Probably would be. They&rsquo;ll be real edgy about
everything for a while. How about instead of fussing about
what&rsquo;s happened already, you spend some time thinking about
what you&rsquo;ll do next time you see your father? And in the
meantime, you can stay out of trouble by keeping notes for me
whenever anybody questions the prisoner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>His glower told me he was no more excited about being offered
work than any boy his age would be. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re going out,
too?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have to go to work.&rdquo; It would be a good day to
get to the library early. The scholars were supposed to be gone
most of the day. There was supposed to be a big meeting of the
bhadrhalok, which was a loosely associated group of educated men
who did not like the Protector and who found the institution of the
Protectorate objectionable. Jokingly, they referred to themselves
as a band of intellectual terrorists. Bhadrhalok means, more or
less, &ldquo;the respectable people&rdquo; and that was exactly
what they thought they were. They were all educated, high-caste
Gunni, which meant, right away, that a vast majority of the Taglian
population regarded them with no sympathy at all. Their biggest
problem with the Protector was that she held their self-confident,
arrogant assumption of superiority in complete contempt. As
revolutionaries and terrorists, they were less incandescent than
any of the low-caste social clubs that existed on every residential
block in the city. I doubt that Soulcatcher wasted two spies
watching them. But they had great fun, fulminating and crying on
one another&rsquo;s shoulders about the world going to hell in a
goat cart driven by the demon in black. And every week or so it got
most of the library crew out of my way.</p>

<p>I did what I could to encourage their seditious fervor.</p>

<p>I got off to a slow start. Not thirty yards from the warehouse
exit I ran into two of our brothers doing donkey work for Do Trang
while standing lookout. One made gestures indicating that they had
something to report. Sighing, I strolled over. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
the story, River?&rdquo; The men called him Riverwalker. I did not
know him by any other name.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We got shadowtraps that&rsquo;s been sprung. We got
ourselves some new pets.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, no. Darn.&rdquo; I shook my head.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s not good?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not good. Run, report it to Goblin. I&rsquo;ll stick with
Ran till you get back. Don&rsquo;t dawdle. I&rsquo;m late
for work.&rdquo; Not true, but Taglians have little sense of
urgency, and the concept of punctuality is alien to most.</p>

<p>Shadows in the shadowtraps. Not a good eventuation, for sure.
Near as we could determine, Soulcatcher had no more than two dozen
manageable shadows left under control. As many more had gone feral
in the remote south and were developing reputations as rakshasas,
which were demons or devils but not quite like those my northern
forebrethren knew. Northern demons seemed to be solitary beings of
considerable power. Rakshasas are communal and pretty weak
individually. But deadly. Very deadly.</p>

<p>In ancient myth, of course, they are much more powerful. They
swat each other over the head with mountaintops, grow two heads for
every one chopped off by a hero, and collect the beautiful wives of
kings who are really gods incarnate but do not remember that fact.
Things must have been much more exciting in olden times&mdash;even if
they did not make a lot of sense from day to day.</p>

<p>Catcher would keep a close eye on her shadows. They were her
most valuable resource. Which meant that if they had been sent out
to spy, she should know exactly where each was supposed to have
gone. At least that is the way I would have done it if I were
committing irreplaceable resources. I did that for every single man
we committed to Willow Swan&rsquo;s capture. I knew how they were
going to get to their places and how they were going to get home
and everything they were supposed to do in between. And just like I
figured Soulcatcher might, I would have gone looking for them
personally if they had failed to return home.</p>

<p>Goblin came hobbling into the early morning light, cursing all
the way. He wore the all-covering brown wool of a veyedeen dervish.
He hated the outfit, however necessary it was to disguise himself
when he was outside. I did not blame him. The wool was hot. It was
supposed to remind the holy men of the hell they were escaping by
devoting themselves to chastity, asceticism and good works.
&ldquo;What the hell is this shit?&rdquo; he growled.
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s hot enough to boil eggs out here
already.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The boys say we&rsquo;ve caught something in our
shadow-traps. I thought you might want to do something about that
before Mama comes looking for her babies.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shit. More
work&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Old man, you just had something in your mouth I
wouldn&rsquo;t even want in my hand.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Vehdna priss. Get the flock out of here before I give you
a real language lesson. And bring home something decent to eat when
you come back. Like maybe a cow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>More than once he and One-Eye had conspired to kidnap one of the
sacred cattle that wander the city. To date, their efforts have
come to naught because none of the men will go along. The majority
have Gunni backgounds.</p>

<p>It took no time at all to learn that our shadow captives were
not the only shadows that had run wild just before dawn. Rumor was
rife. The stories of the murders the shadows committed banished
news of the attack on the Palace and the self-immolation of the
Bhodi disciple. The killings were closer to home and closer in
time. And they were grotesque. The corpse of a man whose life has
been devoured by a shadow is a twisted husk of the creature that
was.</p>

<p>I insinuated myself into the crowd surrounding the doorway of a
family where there had been multiple deaths. You can do that when
you are little and limber and know how to use your elbows. I
arrived just in time to watch them bring the bodies out. I was
hoping they would be exposed to the public eye. Not that I wanted
to see them myself. I saw plenty of those kinds of bodies during
the Shadowmaster wars. I just thought the people ought to see what
Soulcatcher could do. She needed all the enemies she could
get.</p>

<p>The bodies were enshrouded already. But there was talk.</p>

<p>I traveled on, learning that most of the dead had been people
who lived on the streets. And there had been a lot of those, taken
in no obvious pattern whatsoever. It looked like Soulcatcher had
sent the shadows out just to demonstrate that she had the power and
the will to kill.</p>

<p>The deaths had evoked no great fear. People thought it was over.
Most of them did not know any of the dead so were not angry,
either. Curiosity and revulsion were the common emotions.</p>

<p>I considered turning back to tell Goblin to fix the captured
shadows so they would go out killing again tonight and every night
thereafter, till Soulcatcher tracked them down. She would not look
for trappers if she thought her pets had gone rogue. And the
shadows would create a lot more enemies for her before their terror
ended.</p>

<p>At first it seemed the Greys had faded from the streets. They
were less in evidence than usual. But as I skirted Chor Bagan, it
became evident why. They had the place under siege, apparently on
the assumption that any Black Company survivers, having been
branded bandits by the Protector, would hide themselves amongst
Taglios&rsquo; homegrown thieves and villains. Amusing.</p>

<p>Sahra and I insist that we have as little to do with the
criminal element as possible&mdash;over One-Eye&rsquo;s objections. And
ignoring Banh Do Trang&rsquo;s occasional lapses. That element
included folk of dubious morals and discipline who might serve us
up for enough blood money to buy one more jar of illegal wine. I
hoped they and the Greys had fun. I hoped somebody forgot the rules
and their day turned bloody. That would make life easier for me and
mine.</p>

<p>Any trip across town exposes you to the cruel truth about
Taglios. Beggary exists there like nowhere else in the world. Were
someone to sweep the city clean and organize the beggars into
regiments, they would number more than the biggest army the Captain
put together in the days of the Shadowmaster wars. If you look the
least bit foreign or prosperous, they come at you in waves. Every
attempt is made to exploit your pity. Not far from Do Trang&rsquo;s
warehouse there is a boy with neither hands nor lower legs.
Somehow, blocks of wood have been affixed in their place. He crawls
around with a bowl in his mouth. Every cripple over the age of
fifteen claims to be a wounded hero of the wars. The children are
the worst. Often they have been maimed deliberately, their limbs
deformed evilly. They are sold to men who then feel they own them
because they feed them a handful of toasted grain every few
days.</p>

<p>A new mystery of the city is that men of that stripe seem to run
the risk of cruel tortures and their own careers as deformed
beggars. If they do not watch their backs very, very carefully.</p>

<p>My route took me near one such. He had one arm he could use to
drag himself around. The rest of his limbs were twisted ruins. His
bones had been crushed to gravel but he had been kept alive by a
dedicated effort. His face and exposed skin were covered with burn
scars. I paused to place one small copper in his bowl.</p>

<p>He whimpered and tried to crawl away. He could still see out of
one eye.</p>

<p>Everywhere you looked, life proceeded in the unique Taglian
fashion. Every vehicle in motion had people hanging off it,
sponging a ride. Unless it was the ricksha of a rich man, perhaps a
banker from Kowlhri Street, who could afford outrunners armed with
bamboo canes to keep people off. Shopkeepers often sat on top of
their tiny counters because there was no other space. Workmen
jogged hither and yon with backbreaking loads, violently cursing
everyone in their way. The people argued, laughed, waved their arms
wildly, simply stepped to the side of the street where no one was
lying to defecate when the need came upon them. They bathed in the
water in the gutters, indifferent to the fact that a neighbor was
urinating in the same stream fifteen feet away.</p>

<p>Taglios is an all-out, relentless assault upon all the senses
but engages none so much as it does the sense of smell. I hate the
rainy season but without its protracted sluicings-out, Taglios
would become untenable even for rats. Without the rains, the
endemic cholera and smallpox would be far worse than they
are&mdash;though the rainy times bring outbreaks of malaria and yellow
fever. Disease of every sort is common and accepted stoically.</p>

<p>And then there are the lepers, whose plight gives new depth of
meaning to horror and despair. Never do I find my faith in God so
tested as when I consider the lepers. I am as terrified by them as
anyone but I do know enough about some individuals to realize that
very few are being visited by a scourge they deserve. Unless the
Gunni are right and they are paying for evils done in previous
lives.</p>

<p>Up above it all are the kites and crows, the buzzards and
vultures. For the eaters of carrion, life is good. Till the dead
wagons come to collect the fallen.</p>

<p>The people come from everywhere, from five hundred miles, to
find their fortunes. But Fortune is an ugly, two-faced goddess.</p>

<p>When you have lived with her handiwork for half a generation,
you hardly notice anymore. You forget that this is not the way life
has to be. You cease to marvel at just how much evil man can
conjure simply by existing.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide11.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide13.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

