<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide41.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide43.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">40</h2>

<p>Once again One-Eye threatened to prove useless. &ldquo;You got
me by the balls,&rdquo; was his response when I asked him how I
could deal with my dreams.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Goddamn it! Croaker said you&rsquo;d have the answer. But
if you&rsquo;re going to be that way, screw you. Stick it in your
ear.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey, Kid. Take it easy. What way?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Purposely stupid.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re too young to be so cynical, Kid.
Where&rsquo;d you get the idea I couldn&rsquo;t straighten out
something as simple as a dream raider?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I got it from something this lazy-ass little old man told
me about twenty seconds ago.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Did not.&rdquo; He stomped around. &ldquo;Shit.
You&rsquo;re sure the Old Man told you come to me about
this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And you told me everything? Didn&rsquo;t leave some
little detail out, you&rsquo;re too proud to mention, that&rsquo;s
going to get me bit on the ass if I do something?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I told you everything.&rdquo; It had been hard but I
had.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I got to get out of this. I&rsquo;m losing it.&rdquo; He
showed me his best glower. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re sure the Old Man
sent you to me? You weren&rsquo;t just hearing voices?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure.&rdquo; I stared at that stupid hat of
his, wondering if I could get it to hold still long enough for me
to put it out of its misery.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nobody likes a smartass, Kid.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Even you have friends, One-Eye.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He pranced around some. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to do this. I
don&rsquo;t think Croaker knows what he&rsquo;s doing. Why should
I?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I did not realize that he was talking to himself, not me.
&ldquo;On account of I&rsquo;m a brother and I need
help.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. Don&rsquo;t tell me you didn&rsquo;t ask for
this. Come on up to the wagon.&rdquo;</p>

<p>A shiver of anticipation overcame me. It was so strong both
One-Eye and Thai Dei noticed. One-Eye muttered to himself. As he
started to turn he told Thai Dei, &ldquo;You come along,
too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The why of that proved to be Mother Gota. &ldquo;She turned up,
eh?&rdquo; I observed. I probably did not sound thrilled. The fact
was, I was not thrilled. Having Mother Gota around generally made
me wish I had boils on my butt instead.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Found her sitting beside the road looking downright
forlorn as we started down the south slope of the pass.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I knew it was a waste of time but I asked anyway. &ldquo;Where
have you been? Where is Uncle Doj?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Did I say something out loud? Apparently not. She did not
respond. She began carping at Thai Dei about how he was keeping
himself. Maybe his hair was too long or his beard not plucked. What
was insignificant. There was always something to complain about and
something to criticize.</p>

<p>One-Eye said, &ldquo;While they&rsquo;re getting caught up I
want you to climb in the wagon and go for a stroll with the ghost.
Whoa, boy! Let&rsquo;s not get so eager. If the Old Man wants you
to see me about your dreams there&rsquo;s only one possible
reason.&rdquo; He looked over his shoulder. He laid a really hard
look on mother and son. &ldquo;Something he told me to spend some
time on before you all took off for your adventures over
here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Think you can get to the point?&rdquo; I had both hands
on the wagon&rsquo;s tailgate.</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right, smartass. You get in there, you take Smoke
back to the night your wife died. You watch it happen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Goddamn it!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up, Kid. I&rsquo;ve had all your self-pity I can
handle. So&rsquo;s the Old Man, I guess. You want to be able to
deal with these dreams, you go back there and take a damned good
look at what made you the way you are right now. You watch every
second of it. Three times, if that&rsquo;s what it takes. Then you
come back and we&rsquo;ll talk.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I started to argue.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You shut your mouth and do it. Or you just stay away and
spend the rest of your life living in your own
fantasies.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He pissed me off so bad I wanted to jump his ass. Which would
not be wise on several counts. I let the anger give me a boost as I
hoisted myself into the wagon.</p>

<p>I guess you do not quite know yourself, ever. I really did
believe I had it handled until the encounter with Kina, the
temptation of the impossible promise to give me back my dead. After
that the pain had grown back up again.</p>

<p>It was amazing how much I did not want to go watch Sarie die.
The force that moved me on, that convinced me I had to do it, was a
whiff of carrion I caught as something that might have been Kina
passed me in the ghost world. Looking for me?</p>

<p>I found the Palace. I stalled by looking in on the Radisha Drah.
Not much had changed except that word had arrived about the triumph
at Charandapresh. Debate was more lively now, with the Radisha
forced to take the unpopular viewpoint and remind her fellow
conspirators that this unexpected victory did not mean that
Longshadow had been conquered. In the end she closed debate by
ordering Cordy Mather to take a party of fact finders south to
gather reliable information. A bureaucratic solution that just
pushed back the day of treachery.</p>

<p>With a reluctance I did not entirely fathom, so powerful was it,
I rode Smoke to my old quarters. They were unoccupied still.
Everything lay where I had left it, gathering dust.</p>

<p>I had Smoke move backward, very gingerly as we approached the
time when the evil had occurred. For some reason I felt it was very
important that I not encounter my previous self. That if I did so I
would get caught back there living the whole thing over again just
as I had a number of times with my plunges into the darkness of
Dejagore.</p>

<p>Maybe I could warn Sarie. That woman in the swamp had been aware
of me for an instant. Maybe someone who knew me as well as Sahra
did, and me wanting to change things as much as I did, could force
a warning across the barrier of time.</p>

<p>It seemed my trips back to Dejagore may have changed a few
things, though there was no way to be sure.</p>

<p>There. Guards and whatnot rushed all over the place. Some chased
Stranglers, some headed for my apartment. This would be after I had
arrived myself. So I needed to jump maybe another half hour.</p>

<p>I did so, going down to the entrance the Deceivers had used to
penetrate the Palace. I had seen these murders before because I had
been curious how men so alert could be taken by surprise. The first
couple of Deceivers came disguised as temple prostitutes fulfilling
their obligations to their goddess. It had not occurred to the
guards to turn the ladies down. That would have been
sacrilegious.</p>

<p>This was before I became involved. I jumped upstairs, to the
apartment, where my mother-in-law and Sarie were doing housework,
concluding the day. Uncle Doj and To Tan were asleep already. Thai
Dei was not, probably because he was waiting for me to return from
a job where he had not been welcome. He had his eyes closed and
seemed to be trying to shut out his mother&rsquo;s carping two
rooms away.</p>

<p>How Sarie managed I do not know. Particularly when I was the
object of this diatribe.</p>

<p>Mother Gota was more fierce than usual. She wanted to know when
Sahra was going to abandon this headstrong idiocy&mdash;a thousand curses
upon the head of Hong Tray&mdash;and get herself back to the swamps where
she belonged. There was still a chance she could marry, though
certainly not well, seeing as she was past her best years and she
had allowed herself to be defiled by a foreigner.</p>

<p>Sarie took it with such calm I knew she was accustomed to it and
did not let her emotions be touched. She went about her business as
though her mother was not speaking at all. Soon they finished what
they were about. Sahra went to our room without so much as a
&ldquo;Good night,&rdquo; which only irritated her mother more.</p>

<p>I always knew Mother Gota did not approve of me and suspected
she talked behind my back but I never guessed it had gotten that
virulent. The sound of it told me the only reason Mother Gota had
come to Taglios was to get her daughter back home.</p>

<p>I was aware that she had broken some tribal taboos in coming to
me but I had misjudged the true depth of feeling of the Nyueng Bao
toward outsiders.</p>

<p>The apartment became very quiet. To Tan and Uncle Doj were
snoring. Sarie fell asleep almost instantly. Mother Gota was too
busy complaining to turn in immediately.</p>

<p>She did not need an audience, apparently.</p>

<p>I was there hovering when the apartment door opened and the
first Strangler slipped inside. He was a black rumel man, an
assassin who had killed many times. One after another, a whole
troop followed him in. They believed they were going to attack
Croaker, the Liberator. The last reliable intelligence they had
from inside the Palace had Croaker living in this apartment. He had
turned it over to me little more than a week before.</p>

<p>The results were unfortunate for everyone but the Old Man.</p>

<p>Moments after they entered they were aware that there were
several people in the apartment. They whispered too softly to be
heard. Fingers pointed. They split into four teams, three of three
men each while another half dozen stayed in the main room, just
inside the hall door.</p>

<p>To Tan, Thai Dei and Uncle Doj were nearest that room. To Tan
was nearest of all. Then Uncle Doj. Then Thai Dei.</p>

<p>To Tan never had a chance. He never woke up. But Thai Dei was
not asleep yet and Uncle Doj must have had a guardian angel. He
popped up as the Strangler team hit him. The arm-holders, whose
task it was to keep the victim from defending himself while the
senior Strangler got his rumel around his neck and finished him,
were not strong enough for their task. He threw them off, then
dropped the master Strangler with a violent smash from an elbow.
Before the other two could get back at him he reached Ash Wand.</p>

<p>Thai Dei came to his feet as the door to his room swung inward.
The arm-holders hit him as he headed for his swords, flinging him
violently across the room but not before he got hold of his
shortsword.</p>

<p>Thai Dei shouted warnings as he lashed out.</p>

<p>The Stranglers waiting in the main room stormed back to help
their brothers. By the time they arrived Mother Gota was up and
flailing around with a sword and Sahra, who had no weapon
whatsoever and no way out of our room except through the melee, was
trying to find some way to block the entrance.</p>

<p>I studied the next two minutes over and over. During them a
dozen people died. All of them Deceivers. Thai Dei managed to get
his arm broken. Uncle Doj chased survivors into the hall.</p>

<p>It did not happen the way I had been told but it was close
enough to that point. But afterward no bad guys got in behind Doj
and murdered Sahra. Sahra was in bad shape but she was alive. When
Doj returned from the chase Mother Gota suggested she be given
something to calm her down. Uncle Doj agreed. In minutes Sahra was
out, in the bed where I would see her shortly.</p>

<p>I had to go away for a while. I would be arriving any minute. I
came back when I knew I would be out cold, having drunk something
offered me by Uncle Doj while I lay down with my beloved.</p>

<p>I watched them take Sarie and To Tan away. Uncle Doj, Thai Dei
and various relatives, as Mother Gota would tell me after I
awakened, carrying their bodies off for proper funerals at
home.</p>

<p>I managed a fair amount of anger out there despite the emotion
deadening environment.</p>

<p>I followed the party off to Nyueng Bao land. There were other
bodies, too. The Strangler raid had taken the lives of several
Nyueng Bao bodyguards.</p>

<p>Surprise, surprise. Sarie came back to life before the party
ever cleared the city. She acted just about the same as I had on
wakening and finding her gone. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
happening?&rdquo; she demanded. &ldquo;Why are we here?&rdquo; She
directed her questions to Uncle Doj but Doj did not respond except
to make a gesture toward Thai Dei, who was distracted by the pain
of his broken arm.</p>

<p>Thai Dei mumbled, &ldquo;We are taking you home, Sarie. There is
no longer any reason for you to remain in this evil
city.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? You can&rsquo;t do this. Take me back to
Murgen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Thai Dei stared down at the cobblestones. &ldquo;Murgen is dead,
Sarie. The tooga killed him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry, Sahra,&rdquo; Uncle Doj said.
&ldquo;Many tooga paid with their lives but it was a price they
were willing to pay. Many of our people died, too, and where they
failed or they were not present many of the others perished as
well.&rdquo; The word he used as &ldquo;others&rdquo; was Nyueng
Bao for anyone who was not Nyueng Bao.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He can&rsquo;t be dead,&rdquo; Sarie cried. She for sure
had the wail of grief down pat. &ldquo;He can&rsquo;t die without
seeing his child!&rdquo;</p>

<p>Uncle Doj stopped dead in his tracks, as numb as a poleaxed
steer. Thai Dei stared at his sister and began making a whimpering
sound. Since I was getting used to Nyueng Bao ways I assumed he was
distraught because it would be impossible for him to marry off a
sister who carried the child of an outsider.</p>

<p>Uncle Doj muttered, &ldquo;I am beginning to believe your mother
is wiser than we thought, Thai Dei. She blamed all this on Hong
Tray. Now it begins to look like your grandmother was entirely too
clever. Or we just misunderstood. Her prophecy may have included
Murgen only indirectly. It might be about the child Sahra is
carrying.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I understood that the woman in the swamp, twice seen already,
must be Sarie herself.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There will be no place for Sahra, then,&rdquo; Thai Dei
said, pain obvious. &ldquo;If she bears an outsider&rsquo;s bastard
&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Take me back,&rdquo; Sahra said. &ldquo;If you
won&rsquo;t let me be I will be Nyueng Bao no longer. I will go to
my husband&rsquo;s people. There will be a place for me with the
Black Company.&rdquo;</p>

<p>This was social heresy of an order so high that both Thai Dei
and Uncle Doj were stricken speechless.</p>

<p>I do not believe I would have been speechless had I been able to
get at those two right then. I lifted away. I had heard enough to
know where I stood, where Sarie stood and where my faithful
companion Thai Dei stood. The Old Man might not be right about the
Nyueng Bao but he was for sure not wrong.</p>

<p>I skipped forward in time rapidly, tracking Sarie. Thai Dei and
Uncle Doj took her to that temple where I had spotted her before.
They left her in the hands of a great uncle who was a priest. Sahra
was, in essence now, an orphan, though she was a grown woman twice
married. The temple was where Nyueng Bao without family went. The
temple became home. The priests and nuns became family. In return,
the orphan was expected to dedicate his or her life to good works
and whatever deities the Nyueng Bao worshipped.</p>

<p>Nobody ever set me straight on that, though the temple where
they stashed Sahra boasted several idols that looked a lot like
various Gunni gods.</p>

<p>Shadar have only one god of sufficient magnitude to warrant an
idol and Vehdna doctrine proscribes any graven images at all.</p>

<p>I focused in on Sarie as she was today. I followed her about her
duties for an hour. She was helping keep the temple clean, carrying
water, helping with cooking, pretty much exactly what she would
have done had she been living in one of the hamlets with a Nyueng
Bao husband. But the people of the temple shunned her.</p>

<p>No one spoke to her except a priest to whom she was related.
Nothing needed to be said. She had defiled herself. Her only
visitor was an elderly gentleman named Banh Do Trang, a commercial
factor whose friendship Sahra had won during the siege of Dejagore.
Banh had been the interlocutor between us the last time
Sahra&rsquo;s family had tried to keep us apart. He had made it
possible for Sahra to slip away and reach me before she could be
stopped.</p>

<p>Banh understood. Banh had loved a Gunni woman when he was young.
He spent most of his time trading in the outside world. He did not
think everything &ldquo;other&rdquo; was purely evil.</p>

<p>Banh was good people.</p>

<p>I searched hard and picked my moment carefully, when Sarie was
at her afternoon prayer. I brought my point of view down in front
of her, right at eye level. I exercised all my will. &ldquo;Sarie.
I am here. I love you. They lied to you. I am not dead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Sarie made a little sound like a puppy whimpering. For an
instant she seemed to stare right into my eyes. She seemed to see
me. Then she bounced up and fled the room, terrified.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide41.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide43.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

