<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Consider Phlebas</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="phlebas.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide2.html">previous</a> | <a
href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> | <a href=
"slide4.html">next</a></small></div>

<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">1. Sorpen</h2>

<hr>
<p>The level was at his top lip now.&nbsp;&nbsp;Even with his head
pressed hard back against the stones of the cell wall his nose was
only just above the surface.&nbsp;&nbsp;He wasn't going to get his
hands free in time; he was going to drown.</p>

<p>In the darkness of the cell, in its stink and warmth, while the
sweat ran over his brows and tightly closed eyes and his trance
went on and on, one part of his mind tried to accustom him to the
idea of his own death.&nbsp;&nbsp;But, like an unseen insect
buzzing in a quiet room, there was something else, something that
would not go away, was of no use, and only annoyed.&nbsp;&nbsp;It
was a sentence, irrelevant and pointless and so old he'd forgotten
where he had heard or read it, and it went round and round the
inside of his head like a marble spun round the inside of a
jug:</p>

<p><em>The Jinmoti of Bozlen Two kill the hereditary ritual
assassins of the new Yearking's immediate family by drowning them
in the tears of the Continental Empathaur in its Sadness
Season.</em></p>

<p>At one point, shortly after his ordeal had begun and he was only
part-way into his trance, he had wondered what would happen if he
threw up.&nbsp;&nbsp;It had been when the palace
kitchens&#151;about fifteen or sixteen floors above, if his
calculations were correct&#151;had sent their waste down the
sinuous network of plumbing that led to the
sewercell.&nbsp;&nbsp;The gurgling, watery mess had dislodged some
rotten food from the last time some poor wretch had drowned in
filth and garbage, and that was when he felt he might
vomit.&nbsp;&nbsp;It had been almost comforting to work out that it
would make no difference to the time of his death.</p>

<p>Then he had wondered&#151;in that state of nervous frivolity
which sometimes afflicts those who can do nothing but wait in a
situation of mortal threat&#151;whether crying would speed his
death.&nbsp;&nbsp;In theory it would, though in practical terms it
was irrelevant; but that was when the sentence started to roll
round in his head.</p>

<p><em>The Jinmoti of Bozlen Two kill the hereditary
ritual</em>...</p>

<p>The liquid, which he could hear and feel and smell all too
clearly&#151;and could probably have seen with his far from
ordinary eyes had they been open&#151;washed briefly up to touch
the bottom of his nose.&nbsp;&nbsp;He felt it block his nostrils,
filling them with a stench that made his stomach
heave.&nbsp;&nbsp;But he shook his head, tried to force his skull
even further back against the stones, and the foul broth fell
away.&nbsp;&nbsp;He blew down and could breathe again.</p>

<p>There wasn't long now.&nbsp;&nbsp;He checked his wrists again,
but it was no good.&nbsp;&nbsp;It would take another hour or more,
and he had only minutes, if he was lucky.</p>

<p>The trance was breaking anyway.&nbsp;&nbsp;He was returning to
almost total consciousness, as though his brain wanted fully to
appreciate his own death, its own extinction.&nbsp;&nbsp;He tried
to think of something profound, or to see his life flash in front
of him, or suddenly to remember some old love, a long-forgotten
prophecy or premonition, but there was nothing, just an empty
sentence, and the sensations of drowning in other people's dirt and
waste.</p>

<p><em>You old bastards</em>, he thought.&nbsp;&nbsp;One of their
few strokes of humour or originality had been devising an elegant,
ironic way of death.&nbsp;&nbsp;How fitting it must feel to them,
dragging their decrepit frames to the banquet-hall privies,
literally to defecate all over their enemies, and thereby kill
them.</p>

<p>The air pressure built up, and a distant, groaning rumble of
liquid signalled another flushing from above. <em>You old
bastards.&nbsp;&nbsp;Well, I hope at least you kept your promise,
Balveda.</em></p>

<p><em>The Jinmoti of Bozlen Two kill the hereditary ritual</em>...
thought one part of his brain, as the pipes in the ceiling
spluttered and the waste splashed into the warm mass of liquid
which almost filled the cell.&nbsp;&nbsp;The wave passed over his
face, then fell back to leave his nose free for a second and give
him time to gulp a lungful of air.&nbsp;&nbsp;Then the liquid rose
gently to touch the bottom of his nose again, and stayed there.</p>

<p>He held his breath.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>It had hurt at first, when they had hung him up.&nbsp;&nbsp;His
hands, tied inside tight leather pouches, were directly above his
head, manacled inside thick loops of iron bolted to the cell walls,
which took all his weight.&nbsp;&nbsp;His feet were tied together
and left to dangle inside an iron tube, also attached to the wall,
which stopped him from taking any weight on his feet and knees and
at the same time prevented him from moving his legs more than a
hand's breadth out from the wall or to either side.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
tube ended just above his knees; above it there was only a thin and
dirty loincloth to hide his ancient and grubby nakedness.</p>

<p>He had shut off the pain from his wrists and shoulders even
while the four burly guards, two of them perched on ladders, had
secured him in place.&nbsp;&nbsp;Even so he could feel that
niggling sensation at the back of his skull which told him that he
<em>ought</em> to be hurting.&nbsp;&nbsp;That had lessened
gradually as the level of waste in the small sewercell had risen
and buoyed up his body.</p>

<p>He had started to go into a trance then, as soon as the guards
left, though he knew it was probably hopeless.&nbsp;&nbsp;It hadn't
lasted long; the cell door opened again within minutes, a metal
walkway was lowered by a guard onto the damp flagstones of the cell
floor, and light from the corridor washed into the
darkness.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had stopped the Changing trance and craned
his neck to see who his visitor might be.</p>

<p>Into the cell, holding a short staff glowing cool blue, stepped
the stooped, grizzled figure of Amahain-Frolk, security minister
for the Gerontocracy of Sorpen.&nbsp;&nbsp;The old man smiled at
him and nodded approvingly, then turned to the corridor and, with a
thin, discoloured hand, beckoned somebody standing outside the cell
to step onto the short walkway and enter.&nbsp;&nbsp;He guessed it
would be the Culture agent Balveda, and it was.&nbsp;&nbsp;She came
lightly onto the metal boarding, looked round slowly, and fastened
her gaze on him.&nbsp;&nbsp;He smiled and tried to nod in greeting,
his ears rubbing on his naked arms.</p>

<p>'Balveda!&nbsp;&nbsp;I thought I might see you
again.&nbsp;&nbsp;Come to see the host of the party?' He forced a
grin.&nbsp;&nbsp;Officially it was his banquet; he was the
host.&nbsp;&nbsp;Another of the Gerontocracy's little
jokes.&nbsp;&nbsp;He hoped his voice had shown no signs of
fear.</p>

<p>Perosteck Balveda, agent of the Culture, a full head taller than
the old man by her side and still strikingly handsome even in the
pallid glow of the blue torch, shook her thin, finely made head
slowly.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her short, black hair lay like a shadow on her
skull.</p>

<p>'No,' she said, 'I didn't want to see you, or say goodbye.'</p>

<p>'You put me here, Balveda,' he said quietly.</p>

<p>'Yes, and there you belong,' Amahain-Frolk said, stepping as far
forward on the platform as he could without overbalancing and
having to step onto the damp floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I wanted you
tortured first, but Miss Balveda here'&#151;the minister's high,
scratchy voice echoed in the cell as he turned his head back to the
woman&#151;'pleaded for you, though God knows why.&nbsp;&nbsp;But
that's where you belong all right; murderer.' He shook the staff at
the almost naked man hanging on the dirty wall of the cell.</p>

<p>Balveda looked at her feet, just visible under the hem of the
long, plain grey gown she wore.&nbsp;&nbsp;A circular pendant on a
chain around her neck glinted in the light from the corridor
outside.&nbsp;&nbsp;Amahain-Frolk had stepped back beside her,
holding the shining staff up and squinting at the captive.</p>

<p>'You know, even now I could almost swear that was Egratin
hanging there.&nbsp;&nbsp;I can...' He shook his gaunt, bony
head.&nbsp;&nbsp;'... I can hardly believe it isn't, not until he
opens his mouth, anyway.&nbsp;&nbsp;My God, these Changers are
dangerous frightening things!' He turned to Balveda.&nbsp;&nbsp;She
smoothed her hair at the nape of her neck and looked down at the
old man.</p>

<p>'They are also an ancient and proud people, Minister, and there
are very few of them left.&nbsp;&nbsp;May I ask you one more
time?&nbsp;&nbsp;Please?&nbsp;&nbsp;Let him live.&nbsp;&nbsp;He
might be&#151;'</p>

<p>The Gerontocrat waved a thin and twisted hand at her, his face
distorting in a grimace.&nbsp;&nbsp;'No!&nbsp;&nbsp;You would do
well, Miss Balveda, not to keep asking for this... this assassin,
this murderous, treacherous... <em>spy</em>, to be
spared.&nbsp;&nbsp;Do you think we take the cowardly murder and
impersonation of one of our Outworld ministers
lightly?&nbsp;&nbsp;What damage this... <em>thing</em> could have
caused!&nbsp;&nbsp;Why, when we arrested it two of our guards died
just from being <em>scratched</em>! Another is blind for life after
this monster spat in his eye!&nbsp;&nbsp;However,' Amahain-Frolk
sneered at the man chained to the wall, 'we took those teeth
out.&nbsp;&nbsp;And his hands are tied so that he can't even
scratch himself.' He turned to Balveda again.&nbsp;&nbsp;'You say
they are few?&nbsp;&nbsp;I say good; there will soon be one less.'
The old man narrowed his eyes as he looked at the
woman.&nbsp;&nbsp;'We are grateful to you and your people for
exposing this fraud and murderer, but do not think that gives you
the right to tell us what to do.&nbsp;&nbsp;There are some in the
Gerontocracy who want nothing to do with <em>any</em> outside
influence, and their voices grow in volume by the day as the war
comes closer.&nbsp;&nbsp;You would do well not to antagonise those
of us who do support your cause.'</p>

<p>Balveda pursed her lips and looked down at her feet again,
clasping her slender hands behind her
back.&nbsp;&nbsp;Amahain-Frolk had turned back to the man hanging
on the wall, wagging the staff in his direction as he
spoke.&nbsp;&nbsp;'You will soon be dead, impostor, and with you
die your masters' plans for the domination of our peaceful
system!&nbsp;&nbsp;The same fate awaits them if they try to invade
us.&nbsp;&nbsp;We and the Culture are&#151;'</p>

<p>He shook his head as best he could and roared back, 'Frolk,
you're an idiot!' The old man shrank away as though
hit.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Changer went on, 'Can't you see you're going to
be taken over anyway?&nbsp;&nbsp;Probably by the Idirans, but if
not by them then by the Culture.&nbsp;&nbsp;You don't control your
own destinies any more; the war's stopped all that.&nbsp;&nbsp;Soon
this whole sector will be part of the front, unless you
<em>make</em> it part of the Idiran sphere.&nbsp;&nbsp;I was only
sent in to tell you what you should have known anyway&#151;not to
cheat you into something you'd regret later.&nbsp;&nbsp;For God's
sake, man, the Idirans won't <em>eat</em> you&#151;'</p>

<p>'Ha!&nbsp;&nbsp;They look as though they
could!&nbsp;&nbsp;Monsters with three feet; invaders, killers,
infidels... You want us to link with them?&nbsp;&nbsp;With
three-strides tall-monsters?&nbsp;&nbsp;To be ground under their
<em>hooves</em>? To have to worship their false gods?'</p>

<p>'At least they have a God, Frolk.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Culture
doesn't.' The ache in his arms was coming back as he concentrated
on talking.&nbsp;&nbsp;He shifted as best he could and looked down
at the minister.&nbsp;&nbsp;'They at least think the same way you
do.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Culture doesn't.'</p>

<p>'Oh no, my friend, oh no.' Amahain-Frolk held one hand up flat
to him and shook his head.&nbsp;&nbsp;'You won't sow seeds of
discord like that.'</p>

<p>'My God, you stupid old man,' he laughed.&nbsp;&nbsp;'You want
to know who the real representative of the Culture is on this
planet?&nbsp;&nbsp;It's not her,' he nodded at the woman, 'it's
that powered flesh-slicer she has following her everywhere, her
knife missile.&nbsp;&nbsp;She might make the decisions, it might do
what she tells it, but it's the real emissary.&nbsp;&nbsp;That's
what the Culture's about: machines.&nbsp;&nbsp;You think because
Balveda's got two legs and soft skin you should be on her side, but
it's the Idirans who are on the side of life in this war&#151;'</p>

<p>'Well, you will shortly be on the other side of
<em>that</em>.'&nbsp;&nbsp;The Gerontocrat snorted and glanced at
Balveda, who was looking from under lowered brows at the man
chained to the wall.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Let us go, Miss Balveda,'
Amahain-Frolk said as he turned and took the woman's arm to guide
her from the cell.&nbsp;&nbsp;'This... <em>thing's</em> presence
smells more than the cell.'</p>

<p>Balveda looked up at him then, ignoring the dwarfed minister as
he tried to pull her to the door.&nbsp;&nbsp;She gazed right at the
prisoner with her clear, black-irised eyes and held her hands out
from her sides.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I'm sorry,' she said to him.</p>

<p>'Believe it or not, that's rather how I feel,' he replied,
nodding.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Just promise me you'll eat and drink very
little tonight, Balveda. I'd like to think there was one person up
there on my side, and it might as well be my worst enemy.' He had
meant it to be defiant and funny, but it sounded only bitter; he
looked away from the woman's face.</p>

<p>'I promise,' Balveda said.&nbsp;&nbsp;She let herself be led to
the door, and the blue light waned in the dank cell.&nbsp;&nbsp;She
stopped right at the door.&nbsp;&nbsp;By sticking his head
painfully far out he could just see her.&nbsp;&nbsp;The knife
missile was there, too, he noticed, just inside the room; probably
there all the time, but he hadn't noticed its sleek, sharp little
body hovering there in the darkness.&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked into
Balveda's dark eyes as the knife missile moved.</p>

<p>For a second he thought Balveda had instructed the tiny machine
to kill him now&#151;quietly and quickly while she blocked
Amahain-Frolk's view&#151;and his heart thudded.&nbsp;&nbsp;But the
small device simply floated past Balveda's face and out into the
corridor.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda raised one hand in a gesture of
farewell.</p>

<p>'Bora Horza Gobuchul,' she said, 'goodbye.' She turned quickly,
stepped from the platform and out of the cell.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
walkway was hoisted out and the door slammed, scraping rubber
flanges over the grimy floor and hissing once as the internal seals
made it watertight.&nbsp;&nbsp;He hung there, looking down at an
invisible floor for a moment before going back into the trance that
would Change his wrists, thin them down so that he could
escape.&nbsp;&nbsp;But something about the solemn, final way
Balveda had spoken his name had crushed him inside, and he knew
then, if not before, that there was no escape.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>... <em>by drowning them in the tears</em>...</p>

<p>His lungs were bursting!&nbsp;&nbsp;His mouth quivered, his
throat was gagging, the filth was in his ears but he could hear a
great roaring, see lights though it was black dark.&nbsp;&nbsp;His
stomach muscles started to go in and out, and he had to clamp his
jaw to stop his mouth opening for air that wasn't
there.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now.&nbsp;&nbsp;No... <em>now</em> he had to give
in.&nbsp;&nbsp;Not yet... surely now.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now, now, now, any
second; surrender to this awful black vacuum inside him... he had
to breathe... <em>now</em>!</p>

<p>Before he had time to open his mouth he was smashed against the
wall&#151;punched against the stones as though some immense iron
fist had slammed into him.&nbsp;&nbsp;He blew out the stale air
from his lungs in one convulsive breath.&nbsp;&nbsp;His body was
suddenly cold, and every part of it next to the wall throbbed with
pain.&nbsp;&nbsp;Death, it seemed, was weight, pain, cold... and
too much light...</p>

<p>He brought his head up.&nbsp;&nbsp;He moaned at the
light.&nbsp;&nbsp;He tried to see, tried to hear.&nbsp;&nbsp;What
was happening?&nbsp;&nbsp;Why was he breathing?&nbsp;&nbsp;Why was
he so damn <em>heavy</em> again?&nbsp;&nbsp;His body was tearing
his arms from their sockets; his wrists were cut almost to the
bone.&nbsp;&nbsp;Who had <em>done</em> this to him?</p>

<p>Where the wall had been facing him there was a very large and
ragged hole which extended beneath the level of the cell
floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;All the ordure and garbage had burst out of
that.&nbsp;&nbsp;The last few trickles hissed against the hot sides
of the breach, producing steam which curled around the figure
standing blocking most of the brilliant light from outside, in the
open air of Sorpen.&nbsp;&nbsp;The figure was three metres tall and
looked vaguely like a small armoured spaceship sitting on a tripod
of thick legs.&nbsp;&nbsp;Its helmet looked big enough to contain
three human heads, side by side.&nbsp;&nbsp;Held almost casually in
one gigantic hand was a plasma cannon which Horza would have needed
both arms just to lift; the creature's other fist gripped a
slightly larger gun.&nbsp;&nbsp;Behind it, nosing in towards the
hole, came an Idiran gun-platform, lit vividly by the light of
explosions which Horza could now feel through the iron and stones
he was attached to.&nbsp;&nbsp;He raised his head to the giant
standing in the breach and tried to smile.</p>

<p>'Well,' he croaked, then spluttered and spat, 'you lot certainly
took your time.'</p>

<hr>
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide2.html">previous</a> | <a
href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> | <a href=
"slide4.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

