<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Shadow Games</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="games.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide30.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide32.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">Chapter Thirty: TAGLIOS AROUSED</h2>

<p>We approached Taglios with the dawn, days late, all of us at the
brink of collapse, Swan and his buddies maybe worse off than the
rest. Their mundane mounts were wiped out. I asked Swan, &ldquo;You
figure the Prahbrindrah will be overly pissed because I
didn&rsquo;t keep my appointment?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan still had a little pepper left. &ldquo;What the hell can he
do? Put a bug down your shirt? He&rsquo;ll swallow it and smile.
You worry about the Woman. She&rsquo;s the one who&rsquo;ll give
you trouble. If anybody does. She don&rsquo;t always think
right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Priests,&rdquo; Blade said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. Watch out for the priests. They sprung this whole
thing on them the day you guys landed. They couldn&rsquo;t do
anything but go along. But they been thinking about it, you can bet
your butt, and when they find them an angle they&rsquo;re going to
start messing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s Blade&rsquo;s thing with priests?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. I don&rsquo;t want to know. But I
been down here long enough to start thinking he&rsquo;s maybe
right. The world might be better off if we drowned some of
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>One thing that made the military situation wonderfully
impossible was the absence of fortifications. Taglios itself
sprawled everywhere, without a thought to defense.</p>

<p>A people with centuries of pacifism behind them. An enemy with
experienced armies and high-power sorcerers to support them. And me
with maybe a month to figure out how to help the former whip the
latter.</p>

<p>Impossible. When those rivers went down so troops could cross
the massacre would be on.</p>

<p>Swan asked, &ldquo;You make up your mind what you&rsquo;re going
to do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. The Prahbrindrah isn&rsquo;t going to like it,
either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That surprised him. I did not explain. Let them worry. I took my
bunch in to the barracks and sent Swan off to announce our return.
As we dismounted, with half the Company hanging around waiting to
hear something, Murgen said, &ldquo;I guess Goblin&rsquo;s made up
his mind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Something had been preying on the little wizard. He had been
broody and curt all the way home. Now he was grinning. He gave
special attention to his saddlebags.</p>

<p>Mogaba joined me. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve made major progress while
you were gone, Captain. I&rsquo;ll report when you feel up to
it.&rdquo; His question remained unspoken.</p>

<p>I saw no need to leave it hanging. &ldquo;We can&rsquo;t sneak
through. They&rsquo;ve got us. It&rsquo;s fight or turn
back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then there is no option, is there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I guess there never was. But I had to see for
myself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded his understanding.</p>

<p>Before business I tended wounds. Lady was coming back fast. Her
bruises, though, did nothing to make her more attractive. I felt
odd examining her. She had had little to say since our night in the
rain. She was doing a lot of thinking again.</p>

<p>Mogaba had a lot to tell me about discussions with
Taglios&rsquo;s religious leaders and his ideas for putting
together the pretense of an army. I could find nothing in his
suggestions I disapproved. He said, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s one other
thing. A priest named Jahamaraj Jah, number two man in the Shadar
cult. He has a daughter he thinks is dying. It looks like a chance
to make a friend.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Or get somebody thoroughly pissed.&rdquo; Never
underestimate the power of human ingratitude.</p>

<p>&ldquo;One-Eye saw her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I looked at the little witch doctor. He said, &ldquo;Looked like
her appendix to me, Croaker. Not that far gone yet, either. But
these clowns around here don&rsquo;t have the foggiest.
They&rsquo;re trying to exorcise demons.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t opened anybody up in years. How long
before it bursts?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Another day at least, unless she&rsquo;s unlucky. I did
what I could for the pain.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll check it on the way back from the Palace. Make
me a map&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;No. You&rsquo;d better tag
along. You might be useful.&rdquo; Mogaba and I were getting
dressed for a court appearance now. Lady was supposed to be doing
the same.</p>

<p>Swan, not at all improved in appearance, showed up to take us to
the Prince. I did not feel like doing anything but take a nap. I
sure did not feel up to the games of politicians. But I went.</p>

<p>The people of Trogo Taglios had heard that the moment of
decision had come. They were in the streets to watch us. They
remained eerily silent.</p>

<p>I saw dread in all those watching eyes, but hope, too. They were
aware of the risks, and maybe even of the odds against them. A pity
they did not realize that a battlefield is not a wrestling
ring.</p>

<p>Once a child cried. I shivered, hoping it was not an omen. As we
neared the Trogo an old man stepped out of the crowd and pressed
something into my hand. He bowed himself away.</p>

<p>It was a Company badge from olden times. An officer&rsquo;s
badge, perhaps booty from some forgotten battle. I fixed it near
the badge I wore already, the fire-breathing death&rsquo;s-head of
Soulcatcher, which we had retained though we no longer served the
Taken or the empire.</p>

<p>Lady and I had outfitted ourselves in our finest, meaning I wore
my legate&rsquo;s duds and she her imperial rig. We impressed the
mob. Beside us Mogaba looked drab. One-Eye looked like a derelict
scraped off the bottom of the worst dive in the worst slum. That
damned hat. He was as happy as a snail.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Showmanship,&rdquo; Lady had told me. An old maxim of my
own, albeit directed somewhat differently. &ldquo;In politics and
battle our big weapon will have to be showmanship.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She was coming to life. I think those brown guys pissed her
off.</p>

<p>She was right. Showmanship and craft, even more than
traditionally, would have to be our tools. If we were to meet and
beat the veteran armies commanded by the Shadowmasters we would
have to gain our triumphs inside the imaginations of enemy
soldiers. It takes ages to create a force with the self-confidence
to go slug it out despite the odds.</p>

<p>Despite our being late the Prahbrindrah Drah was a gracious
host. He treated us to a dinner the likes of which I have no hope
of seeing again. Afterward, he laid on the entertainment. Dancing
girls, sword swallowers, illusionists, musicians whose work my ear
found too alien to appreciate. He was in no hurry to get to an
answer of which he was confident. During the afternoon Swan
introduced me to several score of Taglios&rsquo;s leading men,
including Jahamaraj Jah. I told Jah I would look at his daughter as
soon as I could. The gratitude in the man&rsquo;s face was
embarrassing.</p>

<p>Otherwise, I paid no attention to those men. I had no intention
of dealing with or through them.</p>

<p>The time came. We were invited out of the crowd into a private
chamber. Because I had brought two of my lieutenants the
Prahbrindrah did the same. One was that codger Smoke, whom the
Prince introduced by title. That translated out as Lord of the
Guardians of Public Safety. And that turned out to mean he was boss
of the city fire brigade.</p>

<p>Only One-Eye failed to keep a straight face.</p>

<p>The Prahbrindrah&rsquo;s other lieutenant was his enigmatic
sister. Put them together and it was obvious she was older and
probably tougher than he. Even dressed up she looked like she had
been ridden hard and put away wet</p>

<p>When the Prahbrindrah asked about my companions I introduced
Mogaba as my commander of infantry and Lady as my chief of staff.
The idea of a woman soldier amazed him. I wondered how much more
amazed he would be if he knew her history.</p>

<p>She concealed surprise at the designation. As much for her
benefit as the Prahbrindrah&rsquo;s, I said, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s
nobody in the Company more qualified. With the possible exception
of the Captain, each post is filled on merit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan was doing the translating. He skirted the edge of the
Prahbrindrah&rsquo;s reply, which, I think, actually suggested
limited agreement. His sister seemed to be his brain trust.</p>

<p>&ldquo;To the point,&rdquo; I told Swan. &ldquo;Time is too
tight if we&rsquo;re going to stop an invasion.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan smiled. &ldquo;Then you&rsquo;re going to accept the
commission?&rdquo;</p>

<p>You never doubted it for a second, you jackal.
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t get your hopes too high, man. I&rsquo;m going to
make a counteroffer. Its terms won&rsquo;t be
negotiable.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan&rsquo;s smile vanished. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t
understand.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve looked at the land. I&rsquo;ve talked with my
people. Despite the lay, most of them want to go on. We know what
we have to do to get to Khatovar. Meaning we&rsquo;ll consider
doing the job your prince wants done. But we won&rsquo;t try it
except on our terms. Tell him that, then I&rsquo;ll give him the
sad news.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan translated. The Prahbrindrah did not look happy. His sister
looked like she wanted a fight. Swan faced me. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s
have it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I&rsquo;m supposed to run an army that I&rsquo;ll have
to build from scratch, I want to have the power to do it. I want to
be the boss. No interference from anybody. No political crap. No
cult feuding. Even the will of the Prince will have to yield for
the duration. I don&rsquo;t know if there&rsquo;s a Taglian word
for what I want. I can&rsquo;t think of a Rosean word, either. In
the Jewel Cities the man in the job I want is called
&lsquo;dictator.&rsquo; They elect him for a year at a time. Tell
him that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Was the Prahbrindrah happy? Sure he was. About as happy as any
prince in that fix. He started lawyering, trying to bury me in ifs,
ands, and buts. I smiled a lot.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I said I wouldn&rsquo;t negotiate, Swan. I meant it. The
only chance I see is for us to do what needs doing when it&rsquo;s
got to be done, not six weeks later, after the ruffled feathers
have been smoothed, the special interests have had their say, and
the graft has been got out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Mogaba had on the biggest smile I&rsquo;d ever seen from him. He
was having fun listening. Maybe he&rsquo;d always wanted to talk
that way to his bosses in Gea-Xle.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;The way I hear it, in about five weeks the rivers
will be down enough that the Shadowmasters can put their troops
across the Main. They won&rsquo;t have internal problems slowing
them down. They&rsquo;ll have every advantage but the Black Company
on their side. So if the Prahbrindrah wants even a prayer of
winning, he has to give me the tools I need. If he doesn&rsquo;t, I
walk. I find some other way. I won&rsquo;t commit
suicide.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan translated. We sat around looking tough and professional
and stubborn. Lady and Mogaba did fine. I thought I might blow it
by being nervous, but I did not. The Prahbrindrah never tried to
call my bluff. He argued, but never so hard I might lose my temper
and stomp out. I never gave an inch. I honestly believed that the
only chance, and that a ghost of a hope, lay in an absolute
military dictatorship. And I had a little inside word, thanks to
Frogface.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey, Swan. Are these people in even bigger trouble than
they&rsquo;ve admitted?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; He cast a nervous glance at the imp.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your boss isn&rsquo;t trying to talk me out of anything.
He&rsquo;s lawyering. Politicking. Wasting time. I get the feeling
that down deep he&rsquo;s scared to death. He agrees with me.
Only he don&rsquo;t want to have to make the choice between
evils. Because then he has to live with his choice.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. Maybe. The Shadowmasters are going to be coming
mean after what we did last summer. Going to make an example of us,
maybe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll want the veterans of that business.
We&rsquo;ll turn them into squad leaders. Assuming I get to be boss
soldier around here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There is an archaic Taglian word meaning warlord.
You&rsquo;ll get your way. It&rsquo;s been argued out in council.
The High Priests don&rsquo;t like it, but they don&rsquo;t have any
choice. Priests were the first people the Shadowmasters rubbed out
wherever they took over. He can make any deal he has to.
They&rsquo;re scared, man. After you win is when you got to start
worrying.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All I had to do was go on sitting tight. But I had come into the
meeting with that assurance from Frogface.</p>

<p>The damned imp grinned and winked at me.</p>

<p>The day rolled on into night and we had to have another meal,
but we sealed our pact.</p>

<p>For the first time since Juniper the Company had a real
commission.</p>

<p>Or vice versa.</p>

<p>The Prahbrindrah wanted to know my plans. He was not dumb. He
knew Mogaba had been putting in twenty-hour days.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Put together a big flashy show for the gang that comes
across the Main, mostly. But we&rsquo;ll recruit and train for
harder times down the line too, assuming we handle that first
bunch. While we&rsquo;re at it, we&rsquo;ll get an idea of what
resources are available and how best to employ them. We&rsquo;ll
root out enemy agents here and try to establish our own over there.
We&rsquo;ll learn the terrain where the fighting may take place.
Swan. I keep hearing about how little time we have till the rivers
go down. How long will they stay down? How long till the next grace
period?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He translated, then said, &ldquo;There&rsquo;ll be six to seven
months when there won&rsquo;t be enough rain to close the fords.
Even after the rainy season starts there&rsquo;ll be two or three
months when they&rsquo;re passable part of the time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wonderful. We got here in the middle of the safe
season.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just about. We could get more than five weeks.
That&rsquo;s a worst estimate.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We can count on it, then. Tell him we&rsquo;ll need a lot
of help from the state. We have to have weapons, armor, mounts,
rations, drays, drayage, equipment. We need a census of all males
between sixteen and forty-five, with their skills and occupations.
I want to know who to conscript if I don&rsquo;t get volunteers. A
census of animals would be helpful. Likewise, a census of weapons
and equipment available. And a census of fortifications and places
that could be used as fortresses. You should know a lot of this
from last summer. Do you write the lingo here, Swan?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He translated, then said, &ldquo;No. I can&rsquo;t figure out
the alphabet. &rsquo;Course, I never learned to read or write
Rosean, neither.&rdquo; He grinned. &ldquo;Not Cordy,
neither.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Blade?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You kidding?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wonderful. Find me somebody who can. It&rsquo;s all right
if he&rsquo;s one of the Radisha&rsquo;s spies. Two birds with one
stone. I&rsquo;ll want you and him both attached to me at the hip
till I learn the language. All right. What I need right now is for
him to get out the word that volunteers should assemble in the
Chandri Square an hour after dawn tomorrow.&rdquo; The Chandri
Square was near our barracks and one of the biggest in Taglios.
&ldquo;They should bring any weapons or equipment they have.
We&rsquo;ll pick twenty-five hundred to start training immediately
and enroll the rest for later.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You may be too optimistic.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought these people were eager to get into
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They are. But tomorrow is a holy day for the Gunni cults.
That takes in four-tenths of the lower classes. When they sit down
nobody else can do anything, either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There aren&rsquo;t any holidays in a war. They better get
used to that right now. They don&rsquo;t show up, that&rsquo;s
tough. They get left behind. Tell the Prince to spread the word
that the guys who volunteer earliest are the guys who&rsquo;re
going to get the best deal. But everybody starts at the bottom.
Even him, if he enlists. I don&rsquo;t know the class structures
here and I don&rsquo;t care. I&rsquo;ll make a prince carry a spear
and have a farm boy command a legion if that&rsquo;s what the man
can do best.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That attitude&rsquo;s going to cause problems, Cap. And
even if they elect you god you&rsquo;re going to have to walk
careful around the priests.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll deal with them when I have to. The politics I
can probably handle. I can twist arms and smooth fur if I have to,
though mainly I just won&rsquo;t put up with it. Tell the Prince he
should hang around my headquarters some. Things will go smoother if
people think he&rsquo;s part of what&rsquo;s happening.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan and the Prince chattered. The Radisha gave me a searching
look, then a smile that said she knew what I was up to. The devil
in me made me wink.</p>

<p>Her smile broadened.</p>

<p>I decided I should know more about her. Not because I was
attracted to her but because I suspected I would like the way she
thought. I like a person with a sound cynical attitude.</p>

<p>Old Smoke, the so-called fire chief, did nothing all evening but
nod off and start awake. Being a cynic, I approved of him as a
public official. The best kind are those who stay the hell out of
the way and don&rsquo;t mess with things. Except for me, of
course.</p>

<p>&ldquo;One thing left for tonight,&rdquo; I told Swan.
&ldquo;Financing. The Black Company don&rsquo;t come cheap. Neither
does creating, arming, training, and maintaining an
army.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan grinned. &ldquo;They got you covered, Cap. Back when they
first heard the prophecies of your coming they started raising
money. It won&rsquo;t be a problem.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s always a problem.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He smiled. &ldquo;You won&rsquo;t be able to spend like there
ain&rsquo;t no bottom to the bucket. The Woman hangs on to the
purse strings around here. And she&rsquo;s famous for being tight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good enough. Ask the Prince if there&rsquo;s anything
else he needs now. I&rsquo;ve got a ton of stuff to do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was another hour of talk, none of it important, all of it
the Prahbrindrah and Radisha trying to get an idea what I was
planning, trying to get a clearer picture of my character and
competence. Giving a stranger life-and-death power over their state
was one long bet for them. I figured I&rsquo;d do a little
something to help their underground scheme.</p>

<p>I became impatience itself, but was proud of me. I controlled it.</p>

<p>Walking home after dark, without crowds, I asked Lady,
&ldquo;Can we count on Shifter&rsquo;s help?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;ll do what I tell him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re sure?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not absolutely. It looks that way, though.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Could he do some scouting over Shadowmaster country?
Shifting into something that flies?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe.&rdquo; She smiled. &ldquo;But he wouldn&rsquo;t
have strength enough to carry you. And I know you. You
wouldn&rsquo;t trust a report from anybody but you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll have to take your chances. Trust him as much
as you dare. He&rsquo;ll serve me if I command him. But he
isn&rsquo;t my slave. He has his own goals now. They may not be
your goals.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I thought it might be a good time to sneak up on something
I&rsquo;d been sliding around since I&rsquo;d caught her playing
with fire in a cup overlooking Gea-Xle. &ldquo;And your own
restored talent?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She was not fazed. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re kidding. I might bother
Goblin if I sneaked up on him and hit him with a hammer. Otherwise,
I&rsquo;m useless. Even small talents have to be exercised to be
any good. There&rsquo;s no time for exercise.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I guess we&rsquo;ll all just do what we can.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Mogaba said, &ldquo;I have several ideas for disarming problems
arising from religious friction. At least temporarily.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Speaking of which. I need to carve on that priest&rsquo;s
kid. One-Eye, I&rsquo;ll need you to back me up. Go ahead,
Mogaba.&rdquo;</p>

<p>His notion was straightforward. We would raise our own army
without regard to religion and use it to meet the
Shadowmasters&rsquo; main thrust. We would encourage the cults to
raise their own forces and use them to meet threats that appeared
at the secondary fords. But we would not surrender our claim to
supreme command.</p>

<p>I laughed. &ldquo;I have a feeling you&rsquo;re looking for a
repeat of the debacle of last summer when&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing should disarm them more thoroughly than failures
and displays of incompetence. I thought we ought to give them their
chances.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sounds good to me. Work up a couple of questions for
recruits so we can get the drift of their religious commitment and
tolerance when we sign them up. You want to tell me how to find
this guy Jahamaraj Jah?&rdquo;</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide30.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide32.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

