<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Yendi</title>
<meta name="title" content="Yendi">
<meta name="series" content="Vlad Taltos">
<meta name="booknum" content="2">
<meta name="author" content="Brust, Steven">
<meta name="genre" content="Science Fiction/Fantasy">
<meta name="publisher" content="Ace Books">
<meta name="isbn" content="0-441-94460-4">
<meta name="version" content="v3.0">
<meta name="proof" content="Shoggoth">
<meta name="proof2" content="Nadie">
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="yendi.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide2.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide4.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">2</h2>

<h3 class="chapter">&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to want
protection.&rdquo;</h3>

<p>When I entered the organization, some three years before, I was
working for a guy named Nielar as what we call a
&ldquo;muscle.&rdquo; He controlled a small gambling operation on
North Garshos Street. He paid his dues to Welok the Blade.</p>

<p>Welok was a sort of mid-level boss. His area went from
Potter&rsquo;s Market Street in the north to Millennial in the
south, and from Prance in the west to One-Claw in the east.</p>

<p>All of these areas were pretty tentative and, when I went to
work for Nielar, the northern edge, along Potter&rsquo;s, was
<em>very</em> tentative. The first time I &ldquo;worked,&rdquo; and
the third, were to further the Blade&rsquo;s desire to make this
border more certain. His northern neighbor was a peaceable kind of
guy named Rolaan, who was trying to negotiate with Welok because he
wanted Potter&rsquo;s but didn&rsquo;t want a war. Rolaan became
more peaceable after he fell from his third-floor office one day.
His lieutenant, Feet Charno, was even more peaceable, so the
problem was resolved nicely. I&rsquo;ve always suspected Feet of
arranging Rolaan&rsquo;s death, because otherwise I can&rsquo;t
account for Welok&rsquo;s leaving Charno alone, but I never found
out for sure.</p>

<p>That was three years ago. About then I stopped working for
Nielar, and went to work for the Blade himself. The Blade&rsquo;s
boss was Toronnan, who ran things from the docks in the east to the
&ldquo;Little Deathsgate&rdquo; area in the west, and from the
river in the south to Issola Street in the north.</p>

<p>About a year and a half after Rolaan took the trip to Deathsgate
Falls, Welok had a dispute with someone in the Left Hand of the
Jhereg. I think the someone was working in the same territory as
Welok (our interests don&rsquo;t usually overlap), but I
don&rsquo;t know exactly what the problem was. One day Welok just
vanished, and his spot was filled by one of his lieutenants&mdash;a
guy named Tagichatn, whose name I still can&rsquo;t pronounce
right.</p>

<p>I&rsquo;d been working as a troubleshooter for the Blade, but
this new guy didn&rsquo;t think much of Easterners. My first day, I
walked into his office, a little place on Copper Lane between
Garshos and Malak Circle. I explained what I&rsquo;d been doing for
Welok, and asked him if he wanted to be called &ldquo;lord,&rdquo;
or &ldquo;boss,&rdquo; or if I should try to figure out how to say
his name. He said, &ldquo;Call me God-boss,&rdquo; and we were
off.</p>

<p>Inside of a week I loathed him. Inside of a month, another
ex-lieutenant of Welok&rsquo;s broke away and started running his
own territory right in the middle of Tagichatn&rsquo;s. This was
Laris.</p>

<p>Two months of &ldquo;God-boss&rdquo; was all I could take. Many
of us who worked for him noticed that he made no move against
Laris. This was taken as a sign of weakness. Eventually, someone
either inside or outside of Tagichatn&rsquo;s organization would
make use of this. I don&rsquo;t know what would have happened if he
hadn&rsquo;t decided to commit suicide&mdash;by stabbing himself in
the left eye.</p>

<p>He died late one night. That same night I made contact with
Kragar, who&rsquo;d worked with me for Nielar, and off and on for
Welok. Recently, Kragar had been working as a bouncer in a tavern
on Pier Street. I said, &ldquo;I just inherited a piece of
property. How would you like to help me hold it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He said, &ldquo;Is it dangerous?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;Damn right it&rsquo;s dangerous.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He said, &ldquo;No thanks, Vlad.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;You start at fifty gold a week. If we&rsquo;re
still around after two weeks, you get seventy-five plus ten percent
of what I make.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He said, &ldquo;One hundred after two weeks, plus fifteen
percent of the gross.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Seventy-five. Fifteen percent of the net.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ninety. Fifteen percent of the net before you split with
upstairs.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Seventy-five. Ten percent before I split.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Done.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The next morning Tagichatn&rsquo;s secretary came in and found
Kragar and me set up in the offices. I said, &ldquo;You can work
for me if you want. Say yes, and you get a ten percent raise. Say
no, and you walk out of here alive. Say yes and try to cross me,
and I&rsquo;ll feed you to the orcas.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He said no. I said, &ldquo;See you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Then I went to an enforcer named Melestav who also hated our
ex-boss and who I&rsquo;d worked with a couple of times. I&rsquo;d
heard he did &ldquo;work,&rdquo; and I knew he was careful. I said,
&ldquo;The boss wants you to be his personal secretary and
bodyguard.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The boss is nuts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m the boss.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I got a map of the city and drew a box around where the dead
man&rsquo;s territory had been. Then I drew another box inside the
first one. For some reason, in this area of Adrilankha bosses
tended to mark the areas by half-streets. That is, instead of
saying, &ldquo;I have Dayland and you have Nebbit,&rdquo;
they&rsquo;d say, &ldquo;I have up to the west side of Dayland, you
have from the east side of Dayland.&rdquo; So the box I drew went
from halfway down Pier Street, where Laris&rsquo;s territory ended,
to Dayland, Dayland to Glendon, Glendon to Undauntra; Undauntra to
Solom; Solom to Lower Kieron Road; and Lower Kieron Road to Pier
Street.</p>

<p>I had Melestav get in touch with the other lieutenant and the
two button-men who&rsquo;d worked directly for Tagichatn, and had
them meet me a block from Toronnan&rsquo;s offices. When they did,
I told them to follow me. I didn&rsquo;t explain anything, I just
took them to the office. When we got there, I had them wait just
outside and I asked to see the boss.</p>

<p>They let me in while the others waited outside. Toronnan had
light hair, cut short and neat. He wore doublet and hose, which
isn&rsquo;t usual for a working Jhereg, and every stitch of his
gray-and-black outfit was in perfect condition. Also, he was short
for a Dragaeran, maybe 6&rsquo;9&rdquo;, and of a small build. All
in all, he looked like a Lyorn recordsmith. He&rsquo;d made his
reputation with a battle-axe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;My lord, I am Vladimir Taltos.&rdquo; I took out
the map and pointed to the first box. &ldquo;With your permission,
I am now in charge of this area.&rdquo; I pointed to the smaller
box within it. &ldquo;I think I can handle this much. There are
gentlemen waiting outside who, I&rsquo;m sure, would be happy to
divide up the rest any way you see fit. I haven&rsquo;t discussed
the matter with them.&rdquo; I bowed.</p>

<p>He looked at me, looked at the map, looked at Loiosh (who had
been sitting on my shoulder the entire time), and said, &ldquo;If
you can do it, Whiskers, it&rsquo;s yours.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I thanked him and got out, leaving him to explain matters to the
rest of them.</p>

<p>I went back to the office, looked over the books, and discovered
that we were almost broke. I had about five hundred personally,
which can keep a family eating and living comfortably for maybe a
year. What I now controlled were four brothels; two gambling halls;
two moneylending operations; and one cleaner, or fence, or
dealer-in-stolen-merchandise. There were no button-men. (A funny
term, that: sometimes it means <em>full-time enforcer on the
payroll,</em> and sometimes it means <em>sublieutenant.</em> I
usually mean the latter.) I did, however, have six enforcers
working full time. I also knew several enforcers who worked
free-lance.</p>

<p>I visited each of my businesses and made them the same offer: I
put a purse with fifty gold in it on the table and said,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m your new boss. This is a bonus, or a good-bye
gift. Take your pick. If you take it as a bonus and try to mess
with me, make a list of your mourn-singers, because you&rsquo;ll
need them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Now doing this left me with damn little cash. They all stayed,
and I held my breath. When Endweek showed up, no one except Nielar,
who was now in my territory, came by. I think they were waiting to
see what I did. At this point, I didn&rsquo;t have enough money to
pay for independent muscle, and I was afraid to use an enforcer
(what if he wouldn&rsquo;t do it?), so I walked down to the
operation nearest my office, a brothel, and found the manager.
Before he could say anything, I pinned the right side of his cloak
to the wall with a throwing knife, about knee level. I did the same
with his left side. I put a shuriken into the wall next to each
ear, close enough to cut. Then Loiosh went after him and raked his
claws down the guy&rsquo;s face. I went up and hit him just below
his sternum, then kneed him in the face when he doubled over. He
began to understand that I wasn&rsquo;t happy.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve got one minute, by the Imperial
Clock, to put my money in my hand. When you&rsquo;ve done that,
Kragar is going over your books; then he&rsquo;s going to talk to
every tag here and find out how much action you&rsquo;ve had. If I
am one copper short, you are a dead man.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He left his cloak in the wall and got the money. While he did
this, I reached Kragar psionically and had him come down. When I
had the purse, we waited for Kragar.</p>

<p>The guy said, &ldquo;Look, boss, I was on my way
over&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut your face or I&rsquo;ll tear out your windpipe and
make you eat it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shut. When Kragar arrived I went back to my office. Kragar
returned about two hours later, and we found out that the books
balanced. He had ten tags working, four men and six women, usually
taking five clients a day, at three Imperials per. The tags earned
four gold a day. Meals came to about nine silver orbs, or call it
half a gold a day. He had an enforcer there full time who was paid
eight Imperials a day. Miscellaneous expenses were allotted another
Imperial.</p>

<p>Each tag took one day a week off, so the place should be taking
in 135 gold a day, on the average. The expenses were 51 a day, so
the daily profit should average in the mid-80s. Five days to the
week (in the East a week is seven days; I&rsquo;m not sure why)
should give about 425 gold a week, of which the manager keeps 25
percent&mdash;a little over a hundred. That meant that I should see
320-some gold every week. I had 328, some silver, and some copper.
I was satisfied.</p>

<p>I was even more satisfied when, over the next hour, the rest of
them showed up with their various takes for the week. They all said
something like, &ldquo;Sorry, boss, I got delayed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I responded with something like, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t get delayed
any more.&rdquo;</p>

<p>By the end of the day, I had collected more than 2,500
Imperials. Of course, I had to pay Kragar, my secretary, and the
enforcers with that; but it still left me with more than 2,000,
half of which I sent on to Toronnan, half of which I could
keep.</p>

<p>I was not at all displeased by this. For an Easterner kid who
used to work his ass off running a restaurant that earned eight
gold in a good week, a thousand plus wasn&rsquo;t bad. I wondered
why I hadn&rsquo;t gotten into this end sooner.</p>

<p>The only other major thing I did for the next few months was buy
a small narcotics and psychedelics business to give me a cover for
my life-style. I hired a bookkeeper to make everything look good. I
also hired a few more enforcers because I wanted to be ready for
any possible trouble from my managers or from punks trying to
muscle in.</p>

<p>Mostly what I had them do was what I call &ldquo;hang-around
duty.&rdquo; This involves just what it says&mdash;hanging around
the neighborhood. The reason for doing this was that this
neighborhood was very popular with young toughs, mostly of the
House of the Orca, who&rsquo;d wander through and harass people.
Most of these kids were broke most of the time, when they
weren&rsquo;t mugging the Teckla who made up the majority of the
citizenry. They came here because it was close to the docks and
because Teckla lived here. &ldquo;Hang-around&rdquo; duty meant
finding these jerks and booting them the Phoenix out of there.</p>

<p>When I was growing up, and collecting lumps from guys
who&rsquo;d go out &ldquo;whisker-cutting,&rdquo; most of them were
Orcas. Because of this, I gave my enforcers very explicit
instructions about what to do to anyone they caught a second time.
And, because these instructions were carried out, in less than
three weeks my area was one of the safest in Adrilankha after dark.
We started spreading rumors, too&mdash;you know, the virgin with
the bag of gold at midnight&mdash;and it got so I almost believed
them myself.</p>

<p>By my figuring, the increase in business paid for the extra
enforcers in four months.</p>

<p>During that period, I &ldquo;worked&rdquo; a few times to
increase my cash supply and to show the world that I could still do
it. But, as I said, nothing much happened that concerns us now.</p>

<p>And then my good neighbor, Laris, showed me why I hadn&rsquo;t
gotten into this end sooner.</p>

<p>The day after I&rsquo;d tried to break up the game and ended by
throwing up on the street, I sent Kragar to find people who worked
with or knew Laris. I killed time around the office, throwing
knives and swapping jokes with my secretary. (&ldquo;How many
Easterners does it take to sharpen a sword? Four: one to hold the
sword and three to move the grindstone.&rdquo;)</p>

<p>Kragar came back just before noon.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What did you find out?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He opened a little notebook and scanned through it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Laris,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;started out as a collector
for a moneylender in Dragaera City. He spent thirty or forty years
at it, then made some connections and began his own business. While
he was collecting he also &lsquo;worked&rsquo; once or twice, as
part of the job.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He stayed a moneylender and made a good living at it for
about sixty years, until Adron&rsquo;s Disaster and the
Interregnum. He dropped out of sight then, like everyone else, and
showed up in Adrilankha about a hundred and fifty years ago selling
Jhereg titles to Easterners.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I interrupted, &ldquo;Could he have been the
one&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know, Vlad. It occurred to me,
too&mdash;about your father&mdash;but I couldn&rsquo;t find
out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t matter. Go on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. About fifty years ago he went to work for Welok as
an enforcer. It looks like he &lsquo;worked&rsquo; a few more
times, then started running a small area directly under Welok,
twenty years ago, when Welok took over from K&rsquo;tang the Hook.
When the Blade took the trip&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;From there I know it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. So now what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I thought this over. &ldquo;He hasn&rsquo;t had any real
setbacks, has he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s also never been in charge of a war.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That isn&rsquo;t quite true, Vlad. I was told that he
pretty much ran the fight against the Hook by himself, which was
why Welok turned the area over to him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But if he was only an enforcer then&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; said Kragar. &ldquo;I get the
feeling that there was more to it than that, but I&rsquo;m not sure
just what it is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hmmmm. Could he have been running another area during
that time? Behind the scenes, or something?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe. Or he might have had some kind of club over
Welok&rsquo;s head.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;I find hard to believe. The
Blade was one tough son-of-a-bitch.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar shrugged. &ldquo;One story I heard is that Laris offered
him the Hook&rsquo;s area, if he could run it. I tried to verify
that, but no one else had heard of it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where did <em>you</em> hear it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A free-lance enforcer who worked for Laris during the
war. A guy named Ishtvan.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Ishtvan?</em> An Easterner?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, just a guy with an Eastern name. Like
Mario.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If he&rsquo;s like Mario, I want him!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know what I mean.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. Okay, send a messenger to Laris. Tell him I&rsquo;d
like to get together with him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s going to want to know where.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right. Find out if there&rsquo;s a good restaurant that
he owns, and make it there. Say, noon tomorrow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Check.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And send a couple of enforcers in here. I&rsquo;m going
to want protection.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Get going.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He got.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Hey, boss. What&rsquo;s this about
&lsquo;protection&rsquo;?&nbsp;</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What about it?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You got me, don&rsquo;tcha? What&rsquo;d ya need
those other clowns for?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Peace of mind. Go to sleep.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>One of the enforcers who&rsquo;d been with me from the time when
I took over the area was called N&rsquo;aal the Healer. He got the
name first, the story goes, when he was sent to collect on a late
payment from a Chreotha noble. He and his partner went to the
guy&rsquo;s flat and clapped at the door. They asked for the money,
and the guy snorted and said, &ldquo;For what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>N&rsquo;aal came up with a hammer. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a
healer,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I see you got a whole head. I can
heal that for you.&rdquo; The Chreotha got the message, and
N&rsquo;aal got the gold. His partner spread the story around and
the name stuck.</p>

<p>Anyway, N&rsquo;aal the Healer walked in about two hours after
I&rsquo;d told Kragar to send the messenger. I inquired as to his
business.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Kragar had me deliver a message,&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh. Did you get an answer?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. I saw one of Laris&rsquo;s people and delivered it.
Word came back that it was fine with him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. Now, if Kragar would just show up, I could find out
where&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m right here, boss.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Eh? Oh. Jerk. Get lost, N&rsquo;aal.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where am I?&rdquo; he said, as he headed out the door.
Kragar flipped it shut with his foot and stretched out.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where is it set up for?&rdquo; I asked him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;A place called &lsquo;The Terrace.&rsquo; Good place. You
won&rsquo;t get out for less than a gold apiece.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can stand it,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>They make a mean pepper sausage,
boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Now, how would you know that?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I hit their garbage dump once in a
while.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Ask a stupid question&mdash;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay,&rdquo; I continued to Kragar, &ldquo;Did you
arrange protection for me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded. &ldquo;Two. Varg and Temek.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;ll do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Also, I&rsquo;ll be there. Just sort of being quiet and
hanging around. I doubt he&rsquo;ll even notice me.&rdquo; He
smirked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Fair enough. Any advice?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shook his head. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m as new at this as you
are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. I&rsquo;ll do my best. Any other
business?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. Everything&rsquo;s running smooth, as
usual.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;May it stay that way,&rdquo; I said, rapping my knuckles
on the desk. He looked at me, puzzled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;An Eastern custom,&rdquo; I explained. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
supposed to bring good luck.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He still looked puzzled, but didn&rsquo;t say anything.</p>

<p>I took out a dagger and started flipping it.</p>
<br>
<p>Varg was of a nastier school than I. He was one of those people
who just reek of danger&mdash;the kind who would kill you as soon
as look at you. He was Kragar&rsquo;s size, which is just a bit
short, and had eyes that slanted upward, indicating that there was
Dzur blood somewhere in his ancestry. His hair was shorter than
most, dark, and worn slicked back. When you spoke with him, he held
himself perfectly motionless, making no extraneous gestures of any
kind, and he&rsquo;d stare at you with those narrow, bright blue
eyes. His face was without emotion, except when he was beating
someone up. Then his face would twist into a Jhereg sneer that was
among the best I&rsquo;d ever seen, and he projected enough hate to
make an army of Teckla run the other way.</p>

<p>He had absolutely no sense of humor.</p>

<p>Temek was tall and so thin you could hardly see him if you came
at him sideways. He had deep, brown eyes&mdash;friendly eyes. He
was a weapons master. He could use an axe, a stick, a dagger, a
throwing knife, any kind of sword, shuriken, darts, poisons of all
types, rope, or even a Verra-be-damned piece of paper. Also, he was
a pretty good sorcerer for a Jhereg outside of the Bitch
Patrol&mdash;the Left Hand. He was the only enforcer I had that I
knew, with one hundred percent certainty, had done
&ldquo;work&rdquo;&mdash;because Kragar had given him the job at my
orders.</p>

<p>A month before this business with Laris started, a certain
Dzurlord had borrowed a large sum from someone who worked for me,
and was refusing to pay it back. Now this Dzurlord was what you
call &ldquo;established&rdquo;; that is, he was considered a hero
by the House of the Dzur, and had earned it several times over. He
was a wizard (which is like a sorcerer, only more so), and more
than just a little bit good with a blade. So he figured that there
was nothing we could do if he decided not to pay us. We sent people
over to plead with him to be reasonable, but he was rude enough to
kill them. This cost me fifteen hundred gold for my half of the
revivification on one of them (the moneylender, of course, paid the
other half), and five thousand gold to the family of the second,
who couldn&rsquo;t be revivified.</p>

<p>Now I did not consider these sums to be trifling. Also, the guy
we&rsquo;d lost had been a friend at one time. All in all, I was
irritated. I told Kragar, &ldquo;I do not want this individual to
pollute the world any longer. See that this is attended
to.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar told me that he&rsquo;d hired Temek and paid him
thirty-six hundred gold&mdash;not unreasonable for a target as
formidable as this Dzur was. Well, four days later&mdash;four days,
mark you, not four weeks&mdash;someone stuck a javelin through the
back of Lord Hero&rsquo;s head and pinned his face to a wall with
it. Also, his left hand was missing.</p>

<p>When the Empire investigated, all they learned was that his hand
had been blown off by his own wizard staff exploding, which also
accounted for the failure of all his defensive spells. The
investigators shrugged and said, &ldquo;Mario did it.&rdquo; Temek
was never even questioned&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>So I brought Temek and Varg in the next morning and had them
close the door and sit down.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Gentlemen,&rdquo; I explained, &ldquo;I am going to a
restaurant called &lsquo;The Terrace&rsquo; in a few hours. I am
going to have a meal with a certain man and speak to him. There is
a chance that he will wish to do me bodily harm. You are to prevent
this from happening. Clear?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Varg.</p>

<p>&ldquo;No problem, boss,&rdquo; said Temek. &ldquo;If he tries
anything, we&rsquo;ll make pieces out of him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good.&rdquo; This was the kind of talk I liked. &ldquo;I
want an escort there and back, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Varg.</p>

<p>&ldquo;No extra charge,&rdquo; said Temek.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We leave here fifteen minutes before noon.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;ll be here,&rdquo; said Temek. He turned to
Varg. &ldquo;Wanna look the place over first?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Varg.</p>

<p>Temek turned back to me. &ldquo;If we aren&rsquo;t back on time,
boss, my woman lives above Cabron and Sons, and she&rsquo;s got a
thing for Easterners.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s kind of you,&rdquo; I told him.
&ldquo;Scatter.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He left. Varg dropped his eyes to the floor briefly, which is
what he used for a bow, and followed him. When the door had closed,
I counted to thirty, slowly, then went past my secretary, and out
into the street. I saw their retreating backs.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Follow them, Loiosh. Make sure they do what they said
they were going to.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Suspicious, aren&rsquo;t you?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Not suspicious; paranoid. Go.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>He went. I followed his progress for a ways, then went back
inside. I sat down in my chair and got out a brace of throwing
knives that I keep in my desk. I swiveled left to face the target,
and started throwing them.</p>

<p>Thunk. Thunk. Thunk.</p>

<br>
<hr size="0">
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide2.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide4.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

