<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Water Sleeps</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="water.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide32.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide34.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">32</h2>

<p class="noindent"><span class="dropcap">I</span> watched the old
priest closely as we eased through the spell net surrounding the
warehouse. He did not have a yarn amulet. His head twitched and
jerked. His feet kept wanting to change direction but his will
hacked a way through the illusions. Possibly that was a result of
his training on the Path of the Sword. I recalled, though, that
Lady had insisted he was a minor wizard.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where are we going, Uncle? And why are we going
there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We go where no Nyueng Bao ear will hear what I tell you.
Old Nyueng Bao would label me a traitor. Young Nyueng Bao would
call me a lying fool. Or worse.&rdquo;</p>

<p>And I? I was generally a proponent of the latter view whenever I
heard him preaching about his path to inner peace through
obsessively continuous preparation for combat. His philosophy had
appealed only to a very few of Banh Do Trang&rsquo;s employees, all
Nyueng Bao, all too young to have witnessed actual warfare. I
understood that the Path of the Sword was not militaristic, but
others had trouble grasping that fact.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You want to maintain your image as an old stiff-neck who
wouldn&rsquo;t be caught dead helping a subhuman <em>jengali</em> fall and
break her skull.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was too dark to tell but I thought he smiled.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s an extreme way of stating it but it
approximates the facts.&rdquo; His Taglian, never poor, improved
now that he had no other audience.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you overlooking the fact that every bit of darkness
out here might harbor a bat or crow or rat, or even one of the
Protector&rsquo;s shadows?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have nothing to fear from those things. The Thousand
Voices already knows everything I&rsquo;m going to tell
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>But she might not want me to know, too.</p>

<p>We walked in silence for a long time.</p>

<p>Taglios seldom fails to amaze me. Doj cut across a wealthy
section, where whole families fort up in estates surrounded by
guarded walls. Their youths were out on Salara Road, which grew up
ages ago to provide them with their diversions. Reason insisted
that beggars ought to be plentiful where the wealth was
concentrated, but that was not the case. The extremely poor were
not allowed to offend the sight of the mighty with their
presence.</p>

<p>There, as everywhere, odors assailed the nostrils but these
scents were sandalwood, cloves and perfumes.</p>

<p>After that, Doj led me into the dark, crowded streets of a
temple district. We stepped aside to let a band of Gunni acolytes
pass. The boys were bullying the people living in the streets. I
thought we might have trouble with them, too, which would have
ended with them suffering a lot of pain, but a brake on their
misbehavior saved them from its consequences. That arrived in the
form of three Greys.</p>

<p>The Shadar do not disdain the caste system entirely but they do
hold to the notion that the highest caste must include not just the
priests and men qualified by birth to become priests, but also,
certainly, any men of the Shadar faith. And that faith, which is an
extremely heretical and Gunni-infected bastard offshoot of my own
One True Faith, contains a strong strain of charity toward the weak
and the unfortunate.</p>

<p>The Greys methodically applied their bamboo canes and invited
the youths to take up any complaints with the Protector. The
acolytes were smarter than they pretended. They got the hell out of
there before the Greys used their whistles to invite all their
friends to the caning.</p>

<p>All part of night in the city. Doj and I
drifted onward.</p>

<p>Eventually he led me to a place called the Deer
Park, which is an expanse of wilderness near the center of the
city. It had been created by some despot of centuries past.</p>

<p>I told Doj, &ldquo;I really don&rsquo;t need all this
exercise.&rdquo; I wondered if he had some goofball plan to murder
me and leave the body under the trees. But what would be the point?</p>

<p>Doj was Doj. With him, you never knew.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I feel more
comfortable here,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;But I never stay long.
There is a company of rangers charged with keeping squatters out.
They consider anyone not Taglian and high caste a squatter. This is
good. This log has shaped itself to my posterior.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The log in question tripped me. I got back onto my feet and
said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m listening.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sit. This will take
a while.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Leave out the begats.&rdquo; Which was a Jaicuri Vehdna
colloquialism having to do with difficulties memorizing scripture,
which you have to do as a child. I meant, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t bother
telling me whose fault it was and why they&rsquo;re such bloody
villains for it. Just tell me what happened.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Asking a storyteller not to embellish is like asking a
fish to give up water.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I do have to go to work tomorrow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;As you
will. You are aware, are you not, that the Free
Companies of Khatovar and the roving bands of Stranglers who
murder for the glory of Kina share a common ancestry?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s enough suggestion in our recent Annals to
allow for that interpretation,&rdquo; I admitted. Caution seemed
indicated.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My place amongst the Nyueng Bao would correspond roughly
with yours as Annalist of the Black Company. It includes, as well,
the role of the priest in the Strangler band&mdash;whose secondary
obligation is to maintain a sound oral history of the band. Over
the centuries the <em>toog</em> have lost their respect for
education.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My own studies suggested that a great deal of evolution had
taken place in my Company during those same centuries. Probably a
lot more than had been the case with the Deceiver bands. They had
stayed inside one culture that had not changed a lot. Meanwhile,
the Black Company kept moving into stranger and stranger lands, old
soldiers being replaced by young foreigners who had no connection
with the past and no idea that Khatovar even existed.</p>

<p>Doj seemed to echo my thoughts. &ldquo;The Strangler bands are
pale imitations of the original Free Companies. The Black Company
retains the name and some of the memories, but you&rsquo;re
philosophically much farther from the original than the Deceivers
are. Your band is ignorant of its true antecedents and has been
kept that way willfully, mainly through the manipulations of the
goddess Kina, but also, to a lesser extent, by others who
didn&rsquo;t want your Company to become what it had been in
another time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I waited. He did not volunteer to explain. Doj was difficult
that way.</p>

<p>He did, I suppose, do something that was even harder for him. He
told the truth about his own people. &ldquo;Nyueng Bao are the
almost pure-blooded descendants of the people of one of the Free
Companies. One that chose not to go back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But the Black Company is supposed to be the only one that
didn&rsquo;t go back. The Annals say&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They tell you only what those who recorded them knew.
My ancestors arrived here after the Black Company finished
laying the land to waste and moved on north, already having lost
sight of its divine mission. Deserting in its own way, through
ignorance of what it was supposed to be. By then it was already
three generations old and had made no effort to maintain the purity
of its blood. It had just fought the war which is the first that
your Annalists remember and was almost completely destroyed. That
seems to be the fate of the Black Company. To be reduced to a
handful, then to reconstitute itself. Again and again. Losing
something of its previous self each time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And the fate of your Company?&rdquo; I noted that he did
not mention a name. No matter, really. No name would mean anything
to me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;To sink ever deeper into ignorance itself. I know the
truth. I know the secrets and the old ways. But I&rsquo;m the last.
Unlike other Companies, we brought our families with us. We were a
late experiment. We had too much to lose. We deserted. We went and
hid in the swamps. But we&rsquo;ve kept our lineage pure.
Almost.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And the pilgrimages? The old people who died in Jaicur?
Hong Tray? And the great, dark, terrible secret of the Nyueng Bao
that Sahra worries about so much?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Nyueng Bao have many dark secrets. All the Free
Companies had dark secrets. We were instruments of the darkness.
The Soldiers of Darkness. The Bone Warriors charged with opening
the way for Kina. Stone Soldiers warring for the honor of being
remembered for all eternity, by having our names written in golden
letters in glittering stone. We failed because our ancestors were
imperfect in their devotion. In every company there were those who
were too weak to bring on the Year of the Skulls.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The old people?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ky Dam and Hong Tray. Ky Dam was the last elected Nyueng
Bao captain. There was no one to take his place. Hong Tray was a
witch with the curse of foresight. She was the last true priest.
Priestess.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Curse of foresight?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She never foresaw anything good.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sensed that he did not want to get into that subject. I
recalled that Hong Tray&rsquo;s final prophecy involved Murgen and
Sahra, which certainly was an offense to all right-thinking Nyueng
Bao&mdash;and was not yet a prophecy completely fulfilled, probably.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The great sin of the Nyueng Bao?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You had that idea from Sahra, of course. And she, like
all those born after the coming of the Shadowmasters, believes that
&lsquo;sin&rsquo; is what caused the Nyueng Bao to flee into the
swamps. She believes wrongly. That flight involved no sin, but
survival. The true black sin occurred within my own
lifetime.&rdquo; His voice tightened up. He had strong feelings
about this.</p>

<p>I waited.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was a small boy just taking my first small steps on the
Path of the Sword when the stranger came. He was a personable man
of middle years. His name was Ashutosh Yaksha. In the oldest form
of the language Ashutosh meant something like Despair of the
Wicked. Yaksha meant much the same as it does in Taglian
today.&rdquo; Which was &ldquo;good spirit.&rdquo; &ldquo;People
were prepared to believe he was a supernatural being because he had
a white skin. A very pale, white skin, lighter than Goblin or
Willow Swan, who sometimes get some sunlight. He wasn&rsquo;t an
albino, though. He had normal eyes. His hair wasn&rsquo;t quite as
blond as Swan&rsquo;s is. In sum, he was a magical creature to most
Nyueng Bao. He spoke the language oddly but he did speak it. He
said he wanted to study at the Vinh Gao Ghang temple, the fame of
which had reached him far away.</p>

<p>&ldquo;When pressed about his origins, he insisted that he
hailed from &lsquo;The Land of Unknown Shadows, beneath the stars of the
Noose.&rsquo;&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He claimed to have come off the glittering
stone?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not quite. That was never clear. There or beyond. No one
pressed him hard. Not even Ky Dam or Hong Tray, though he troubled
them. Very early we learned that Ashutosh was a powerful sorcerer.
And in those days many of the older people still knew about the
origins of the Nyueng Bao. It was feared that he might have been
sent to summon us home. That proved to be untrue. For a long time
Ashutosh seemed to be nothing but what he claimed, a student who
wanted to absorb whatever wisdom had accumulated at the temple of
Ghanghesha. Which had been a holy place since the Nyueng Bao first
entered the swamp.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But there&rsquo;s a but. Right? The man was a villain
after all?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He was indeed. In fact, Ashutosh was the man you knew
later as Shadowspinner. He was there to find our Key, sent by his
teacher and mentor, whom you came to know as Longshadow. At a young
age this man had stumbled across rumors that not all the Free
Companies had returned to Khatovar. What he understood from that,
that nobody else realized, was that each Company still outside must
possess a talisman capable of opening and closing the Shadowgate.
An ambitious man could use that talisman to recruit rakshasas he
could send out to do evil for him. The power to kill becomes the
ultimate power in the hands of a man who has no reservations about
employing it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So this Ashutosh Yaksha found the
Key?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He only assured himself that it existed. He wormed his
way into the confidence of the senior priests. One day someone let
something drop. Soon afterward, Ashutosh announced that he had
received word that his teacher, mentor and spiritual father,
Maricha Manthara Dhumraksha, impressed by his reports on the
temple, had chosen to come visit. Dhumraksha turned out to be a
tall, incredibly skinny man who always wore a mask, apparently
because his face was deformed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You heard a name like Maricha Manthara Dhumraksha and you
didn&rsquo;t suspect something?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I could not see Doj in the darkness but I could feel his unhappy
frown. He said, &ldquo;I was a small child.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And the Nyueng Bao aren&rsquo;t interested in anything
not their own. Yes. I&rsquo;m Vehdna, Uncle, but I recognize the
names Manthara and Dhumraksha as those of legendary
Gunni demons. Even though you walk amongst lesser beings, you
might keep your ears open. That way, when a nasty <em>jengali</em> sorcerer
pulls your leg, you&rsquo;ll at least have a clue.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Doj grunted. &ldquo;He had a golden tongue, Dhumraksha did. When
he discovered that each decade, as the custom was then, a band of
the leading men undertook a pilgrimage south&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He invited himself along and tricked somebody into
letting him examine the Key.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Close. But not quite. Yes. You did guess correctly. The
pilgrimage went to the very Shadowgate. The pilgrims would spend
ten days there waiting for a sign. I don&rsquo;t believe anyone
knew what that might be anymore. But the traditions had to be
observed. The pilgrims, however, never took the actual Key with
them. They carried a replica charged with a few simple spells meant
to fool an inattentive thief. The real Key stayed home. The old men
didn&rsquo;t really want a sign from the other side.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Longshadow got in a hurry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He did. When the pilgrims arrived at the Shadowgate, they
found Ashutosh Yaksha and a half-dozen other sorcerers waiting.
Several were fugitives from that northern realm of darkness where
the Black Company was then in service. When Dhumraksha used the
false key, his band found themselves under attack from the other
side of the Shadowgate. Before the gateway could be stopped up,
using the power of Longshadow&rsquo;s true name, three of the
would-be Shadowmasters had perished. The one called the Howler,
cruelly injured, had fled. The survivors quickly became the
feuding, conquering monsters your brothers found in place when they
arrived. And the same disaster caused the Mother of Night to
reawaken and begin scheming toward a Year of the Skulls once
more.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And that&rsquo;s the great sin of the Nyueng Bao? Letting
themselves be hoodwinked by sorcerers?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In those days there was little contact with the world
outside the swamp. Banh Do Trang&rsquo;s family managed all outside
trade. Once a decade a handful of the older men traveled to the
Shadowgate. About as frequently, Gunni ascetics would enter the
swamp hoping to purify their souls. These Gunni hermits were
obviously crazy or they wouldn&rsquo;t have come into the swamps in
the first place. They were always tolerated. And Ghanghesha found a
home.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where does The Thousand Voices fit?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She learned the story from the Howler around the time we
were trapped in Dejagore. Or soon afterward. She came to the temple
soon after we returned, the best of us exhausted, our old men all
dead, including our Captain and Speaker, and witch Hong Tray with
them. There was no one but me left who knew everything&mdash;though Gota
and Thai Dei knew some, and Sahra a little, they being of the
family of Ky Dam and Hong Tray. The Thousand Voices went to the
temple while I was away. She used her power to intimidate and
torture the priests until they surrendered the mysterious object
that had been given them for safekeeping ages ago. They
didn&rsquo;t even know what it was anymore. They really can&rsquo;t
be blamed but I can&rsquo;t help blaming them. And there you have
it. All the secrets of the Nyueng Bao.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I doubted that. &ldquo;I doubt that seriously. But it&rsquo;s a
basis from which to work. Are you going to cooperate? If we get
Narayan Singh to divulge what he did with the Key?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you&rsquo;ll undertake a promise never to tell anyone
what I told you here tonight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I swear it on the Annals.&rdquo; This was too easy.
&ldquo;I won&rsquo;t say a word to a soul.&rdquo; But I did not say
anything about not writing it down.</p>

<p>I did not extract an oath from him.</p>

<p>Sometime, eventually, he would face the moral dilemma that had
swallowed the Radisha once it seemed that the Company would fulfill
its obligation to her and it was coming time for her to deliver on
her own commitments. Once Uncle Doj had his own people out from
under the glittering stone, his reliability as an ally would turn
to smoke.</p>

<p>Easily dealt with when the time came, I thought. I told Doj,
&ldquo;I still have to work tomorrow. And it&rsquo;s a whole lot
later now than it was an hour ago.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He rose, evidently relieved that I had not asked many questions.
I did have a few in mind, such as why the Nyueng Bao had risked
more frequent pilgrimages to the Shadowgate once the Shadowmasters
were in power, adding women and children and old people to the
entourage. So I asked anyway, while we were walking.</p>

<p>He told me, &ldquo;The Shadowmasters permitted it. It added to
their feelings of superiority. And it let us keep them thinking
that we didn&rsquo;t have the real Key, that we were searching for
it. Our own people believed that was what we were doing. Only Ky
Dam and Hong Tray knew the whole truth. The Shadowmasters were
hoping we&rsquo;d find it for them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Thousand Voices figured it out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes. Her crows went everywhere and heard
everything.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And in those days she had a very sneaky demon at her beck
and call.&rdquo; I continued to pester him all the way back to the
warehouse, cleverly trying to find his remaining secrets by
coloring in more map around the blank places.</p>

<p>I did not fool him a bit.</p>

<p>Before I dragged off to bed, I visited Sahra, Murgen and Goblin
one more time. &ldquo;You people get all of that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Most of it,&rdquo; Murgen said. &ldquo;This weary old
slave has been doing some other chores, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Think he told the truth?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mostly,&rdquo; Sahra admitted. &ldquo;He told no lies
that I noticed, but I don&rsquo;t think he told the whole
truth.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, of course not. He&rsquo;s Nyueng Bao right down to
his twisted toe bones. And a wizard besides.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Before Sahra got indignant, Goblin told me, &ldquo;There was a
white crow out there with you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I saw it,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;I figured it was
Murgen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Murgen said, &ldquo;It wasn&rsquo;t Murgen. I was there
disembodied. Same as now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What was it, then? <em>Who</em> was it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; Murgen replied.</p>

<p>I did not entirely believe him. Maybe it was a false intuition
but I was sure he had a strong suspicion.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide32.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide34.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

