<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Yendi</title>
<meta name="title" content="Yendi">
<meta name="series" content="Vlad Taltos">
<meta name="booknum" content="2">
<meta name="author" content="Brust, Steven">
<meta name="genre" content="Science Fiction/Fantasy">
<meta name="publisher" content="Ace Books">
<meta name="isbn" content="0-441-94460-4">
<meta name="version" content="v3.0">
<meta name="proof" content="Shoggoth">
<meta name="proof2" content="Nadie">
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="yendi.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide4.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide6.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">4</h2>

<h3 class="chapter">&ldquo;You expect to be
unavailable?&rdquo;</h3>

<p>The city of Adrilankha lies along the southern coast of the
Dragaeran Empire. It spent most of its existence as a middle-sized
port city and became the Imperial capital when Dragaera City became
a bubbling sea of chaos, on that day four hundred some years ago
when Adron almost usurped the throne.</p>

<p>Adrilankha is as old as the Empire. It had its real beginnings
in a spot that recently (in Dragaeran terms) became a cornerstone
of the new Imperial Palace. It was there that, thousands of
generations ago, Kieron the Conqueror met with the Shamans and told
them that they could run wherever they wanted to, but that he and
his Army of All Tribes would stand and wait for the &ldquo;Eastern
Devils.&rdquo; From there, he walked alone down a long trail that
ended in a high cliff overlooking the sea. It is said by those who
make it their business to say things that he stood there, unmoving,
for five days (hence the five-day Dragaeran week) awaiting the
arrival of the Tribe of the Orca, who had promised reinforcements,
as the Eastern army closed in.</p>

<p>The spot was known as &ldquo;Kieron&rsquo;s Watch&rdquo; until
the Interregnum, when the spells that had kept that part of the
cliff from falling into the sea collapsed. I&rsquo;ve always
thought that amusing.</p>

<p>By the way, for those of you with an interest in history, the
Orcas finally arrived, in time. They proved utterly useless as
fighters on land, but Kieron won the battle anyway, thus securing
the foundations of an Empire of Dragaerans.</p>

<p>Shame about that.</p>

<p>The path he walked is still known as Kieron Road, and leads from
the new Imperial Palace down through the heart of the city, past
the docks, and finally peters out with no ceremony somewhere in the
foothills west of town. At some unspecified point, Kieron Road
becomes Lower Kieron Road, and passes through a few not-very-nice
neighborhoods. Along one of these stretches is the restaurant my
father used to own, where he&rsquo;d built up the small fortune
that he later squandered buying a title in the Jhereg. The result
of this is that I&rsquo;m a citizen of the Empire, so now I can
find out what time it is.</p>

<p>When I reached the age of deciding to get paid for what I was
doing anyway (beating up Dragaerans), my first boss, Nielar, worked
out of a small store on Lower Kieron Road. Supposedly, the store
sold narcotics, hallucinogens, and other sorcery supplies. His real
business was an almost continuous game of shareba, which he somehow
kept forgetting to notify the Empire&rsquo;s tax collectors of.
Nielar taught me the system of payoffs to the Phoenix Guards (since
most of them are actually Dragons, you can&rsquo;t bribe one about
anything important, but they like to gamble as much as anyone, and
don&rsquo;t like taxes any more than most), how to make
arrangements with the organization, how to hide your income from
the Imperial tax collectors, and a hundred other little
details.</p>

<p>When I took this area over from Tagichatn, Nielar was suddenly
working for me. He was the only one who showed up to pay me the
first week I was running the area. Later, he tore out the narcotics
business and expanded to running s&rsquo;yang stones. Then he put
in a brothel upstairs. All in all, the place was my biggest single
earner. So far as I know, the idea of holding out part of my cut
never even occurred to him.</p>

<p>I stood next to Kragar in the burnt-out ruins of the building.
Nielar&rsquo;s body lay before me. The fire hadn&rsquo;t killed
him; his skull was caved in. Loiosh nuzzled my left ear.</p>

<p>After a long time, I said, &ldquo;Arrange for ten thousand gold
for his widow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Should I send someone over to tell her?&rdquo; Kragar
asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; I sighed, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll do it
myself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Some time later, at my office, Kragar said, &ldquo;Both of his
enforcers were in there, too. One may be revivifiable.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do it,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;And find the other
one&rsquo;s family. See that they&rsquo;re well paid.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. What now?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shit. What now? That cash just about exhausted me. My
biggest source of income is gone. If someone delivered
Laris&rsquo;s head to me right now, I couldn&rsquo;t pay him. If
the revivification fails, and we have to pay that guy&rsquo;s
family, that&rsquo;ll do it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;ll have more in a couple of days.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Great. How long will that last?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shrugged. I spun my chair and threw a dagger into the target
on the wall. &ldquo;Laris is too Verra-be-damned good, Kragar. He
took one shot, before I could move, and crippled me with it. And
you know how he could do it? I&rsquo;ll bet he knows every copper I
make, where I make it, and how I spend it. I&rsquo;ll bet he has a
list of everyone who works for me, strengths and weaknesses. If we
get out of this thing, I&rsquo;m going to build me the best spy
network this organization has ever seen. I don&rsquo;t care if I
have to keep myself a Verra-be-damned pauper to do it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar shrugged. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s <em>if we</em> get out of
this.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you think you could get to him yourself,
boss?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe,&rdquo; I admitted. &ldquo;Given time. For that,
though, I&rsquo;d have to wait until some of the reports came back.
And it&rsquo;d take me at least a week, more like three, to set it
up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Kragar nodded. &ldquo;We need to be earning in the
meantime.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I thought over a few things. &ldquo;Well, okay. There&rsquo;s
one thing that might work to get some cash. I wanted to hold it in
reserve, but it doesn&rsquo;t look like I&rsquo;m going to be able
to.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What is it, boss?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shook my head. &ldquo;Take charge here. If there&rsquo;s any
emergency, get hold of me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I opened my bottom-left desk drawer and rummaged around until I
found a fairly serviceable enchanted dagger. I scratched a rough
circle on the floor and made a few marks in it. Then I stepped into
the middle.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why do you do all that drawing, boss? You don&rsquo;t
need to&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It helps, Kragar. See you later.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I drew on my link to the Orb and was in the courtyard of
Morrolan&rsquo;s Castle, feeling sick. I avoided looking down
because the sight of the ground, a mile below, would not have
helped at all. I stared straight at the great double doors, some
forty yards in front of me, until I no longer felt like throwing
up.</p>

<p>I walked up to them. Walking in Morrolan&rsquo;s courtyard feels
exactly like walking on flagstone, except your boots don&rsquo;t
make any noise, which is disconcerting until you get used to it.
The doors swung open when I was about five paces away, and Lady
Teldra stood facing me, a warm smile on her face.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Lord Taltos,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;we&rsquo;re
delighted to see you, as always. I hope you&rsquo;ll be able to
stay with us for at least a few days this time. We see you so
seldom.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I bowed to her. &ldquo;Thank you, Lady. A short mission only,
I&rsquo;m afraid. Where can I find Morrolan?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Lord Morrolan is in his library, my lord. I&rsquo;m
certain he&rsquo;d be as delighted to see you as the rest of
us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thanks,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;I can find my own
way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;As you wish, my lord.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was always like that, with her. And she made you believe all
that stuff, too.</p>
<br>
<p>As she&rsquo;d said, I found Morrolan in the library. When I
walked in, he was sitting with a book open on the table before him,
holding a small glass tube suspended by a piece of thread over a
black candle. He looked up as I came in, and set the tube
aside.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s witchcraft,&rdquo; I told him. &ldquo;Cut it
out. <em>Easterners</em> do witchcraft; Dragaerans do
sorcery.&rdquo; I sniffed the air. &ldquo;Besides, you&rsquo;re
using basil. You should be using rosemary.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was an accomplished witch three hundred years before
you were born, Vlad.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I snorted. &ldquo;You <em>still</em> should be using
rosemary.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The text failed to specify,&rdquo; he said.
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s been rather badly burned.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I nodded. &ldquo;Where were you trying to see?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Around the corner,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It was merely
an experiment. But please, sit down. What may I help you
with?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sat in a large, overstuffed chair done in black leather. I
found a piece of paper on a table next to it, and a pen. I picked
these up and began writing. As I did so, Loiosh flew over to
Morrolan&rsquo;s shoulder. Morrolan dutifully scratched his head.
Loiosh accepted graciously, and flew back. I handed Morrolan the
paper, and he looked at it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Three names,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I fail to recognize
any of them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re all Jhereg,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Kragar
should be able to put you in touch with any of them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re all good at security.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You wish me to hire an assistant for you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not exactly. You may want to consider one of these after
I&rsquo;m unavailable.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You expect to be unavailable?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In a manner of speaking. I expect to be dead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>His eyes narrowed. &ldquo;What?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know of any other way to put it. I expect
that I&rsquo;ll be dead soon.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m overmatched. Someone&rsquo;s after my territory
and I don&rsquo;t intend to let him have it. I think he&rsquo;ll be
able to take me, and that means I&rsquo;ll be dead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Morrolan studied me. &ldquo;Why will he be able to
&lsquo;take&rsquo; you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He has more resources than I do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;&nbsp;&lsquo;Resources&rsquo;?&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Money.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh. Please enlighten me, Vlad. How much money does
something like this take?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Eh? Hmmm. I&rsquo;d say about five thousand
gold&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;every week for as long as it
lasts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see. And how long is it liable to last?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, three or four months is usual. Sometimes six. Nine is
a long time, a year is a very long time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see. I presume that this visit is not an underhanded
way of soliciting funds.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I pretended surprise. &ldquo;Morrolan! Of course not! Ask a
Dragon to support a Jhereg war? I wouldn&rsquo;t even consider
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good,&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s all I came by for. I guess I&rsquo;ll
be heading back now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Well, good luck. Perhaps
I&rsquo;ll see you again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perhaps,&rdquo; I agreed. I bowed and took my leave. I
wandered down the stairs, down the hall, and to the front doors.
Lady Teldra smiled as I walked past her, and said, &ldquo;Excuse
me, Lord Taltos.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I stopped and turned. &ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I believe you are forgetting something.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She was holding out a large purse. I smiled. &ldquo;Why, yes,
thank you. I wouldn&rsquo;t want to have forgotten that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I hope we see you again soon, my lord.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I almost think you will, Lady Teldra,&rdquo; I said. I
bowed to her, and returned to the courtyard to teleport.</p>

<p>I arrived on the street outside of the office and hurried in.
When I got into the office itself I yelled for Kragar.</p>

<p>Then I dumped the gold onto my desk and quickly counted it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sacred shit, Vlad! What did you do, lighten the Dragon
treasury?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Only a part of it, my friend,&rdquo; I said as I finished
the counting. &ldquo;Say about twenty thousand worth.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shook his head. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know how you did it,
boss, but I like it. Believe me, I like it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. Help me figure out how to spend it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That evening, Kragar made contact with seven free-lance
enforcers and persuaded five of them to come to work for me for the
duration. While he was doing that, I reached Temek.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What is it, boss? We&rsquo;re just getting
start&mdash;</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I don&rsquo;t care. What do you have, so
far?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Huh? Not much of anything.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Forget the &lsquo;not much.&rsquo; Do you have even
one place? Or one name?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Well, there&rsquo;s a real popular brothel on
Silversmith and Pier.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Where exactly?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Northwest corner, above the Jungle Hawk
Inn.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Does he own the inn, too?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Don&rsquo;t know.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay. Thanks. Keep at it.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>When Kragar checked in, to report procuring number two, I said,
&ldquo;<em>Take a break for a while. Get hold of Narvane. Have him
stop what he&rsquo;s doing&mdash;he&rsquo;s helping
Temek&mdash;long enough to wipe out the second floor of the Jungle
Hawk Inn on Silversmith and Pier. Just the second floor. Got
it?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Got it boss! Looks like we&rsquo;re
off!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You bet your bonus we&rsquo;re off. Get
busy.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I took a piece of paper and began scratching out some notes. Let
me see, to protect each of my businesses against direct sorcerous
attack for two months would cost&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;hmm.
Make it one month then. Yes. That would leave me enough to work
with. Good. Now, I&rsquo;d want to&mdash;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Cut it out, boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Huh? Cut what out, Loiosh?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You&rsquo;re whistling.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Sorry.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Burning down an enemy&rsquo;s business is not a normal thing for
a Jhereg war. It&rsquo;s expensive and it gets noticed, neither of
which is good. But Laris had hoped to take me out with one good
shot. My response was to let him see that I was not only not down,
but I wasn&rsquo;t even hurting. This was a lie, but it should
discourage any more of the heavy-handed nonsense.</p>

<p>Narvane reported in the next morning to say that the job had
gone fine. He got a nice bonus for his trouble, and orders to lie
low for a while. I met with the new enforcers and assigned them to
their tasks, all of which involved defensive work&mdash;protecting
this or that place. I still didn&rsquo;t have enough information on
Laris&rsquo;s operation to know how I could hurt him, so I had to
protect myself.</p>

<p>The morning went by quietly enough. I imagine Laris was
assessing his position based on the events of last night. He might
even be regretting the whole thing&mdash;but of course, he was now
in too deep to back out.</p>

<p>I wondered how he&rsquo;d hit me next.</p>

<p>A sorceress arrived promptly an hour after noon. I put five
hundred gold into her hand. She walked out onto the street, raised
her hands, concentrated for a moment, nodded, and left. Five
hundred gold for five seconds&rsquo; work. It was enough to make me
regret my profession. Almost.</p>

<p>An hour or so later, I went out, with Wyrn and Miraf&rsquo;n as
bodyguards, and visited each of my businesses. No one even seemed
to notice me. Good. I hoped the quiet would last long enough for
Temek to collect a reasonable amount of information. It was
frustrating, operating blind like that.</p>

<p>The rest of the day passed nervously, but with nothing
happening. Ditto for the next day, except that various sorcerers
from the Bitch Patrol came by each of my places and protected them
from sorcery. Direct sorcery, I mean. There&rsquo;s no way to
protect them from, say, someone levitating a fifty-gallon canister
of kerosene over a building, lighting it, and then dropping it. But
the enforcers I&rsquo;d hired should be able to spot something like
that, maybe even in time to do something about it.</p>

<p>To that end, I threw down more gold to keep a sorceress on
full-time call. Actually using her would cost extra, but this way I
was ready.</p>

<p>Reports from Temek indicated that Laris had taken similar
measures. Other than that, Temek seemed to be having little luck.
Everyone was being very close-mouthed. I had Miraf&rsquo;n bring
him a bag with a thousand Imperials to help open a few of those
mouths.</p>

<p>The next day, Endweek, was much like the last, until shortly
after noon. I was just hearing the news that the enforcer
who&rsquo;d been killed trying to protect Nielar had been
revivified successfully when&mdash;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Boss!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What is it, Temek?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Boss, you know the moneylender who works out of North
Garshos?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yeah.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>They got him, while he was on his way over to you.
Dead. It looks like an axe job; half of his head is missing.
I&rsquo;m bringing the money in.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Shit.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Right, boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I told Kragar, while cursing myself for six kinds of a fool. It
had just never occurred to me that Laris would go after the people
making deliveries. Of course he knew when they were made, and from
where, but it&rsquo;s one of the great unwritten laws of the Jhereg
that we don&rsquo;t steal from each other. I mean, it has never
happened, and I&rsquo;ll bet you all kinds of things that it never
will.</p>

<p>But that didn&rsquo;t mean that those managers were safe. There
wasn&rsquo;t any reason in the world why they couldn&rsquo;t be
nailed, and the gold simply left on them.</p>

<p>I was just getting up a good round of cursing when I realized
that there were more productive things to do. I didn&rsquo;t know
any of these managers well enough to make contact with them
psionically, but&mdash;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Kragar! Melestav! Wyrn! Miraf&rsquo;n! In here, quick!
I&rsquo;m going to lock the doors and sit tight. Divide up the
businesses, teleport over to them <em>right now,</em> and
don&rsquo;t let anyone leave who hasn&rsquo;t yet. Later,
I&rsquo;ll arrange protection for them. Now, go!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh, boss&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What is it, Melestav?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t teleport.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Damn. Okay. Kragar, cover for him, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Check, boss.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a rush of displaced air that made my ears pop, and
Melestav and I were alone. We looked at each other.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I guess I still have a lot to learn about this business,
eh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He gave me a faint smile. &ldquo;I guess so, boss.&rdquo;</p>
<br>
<p>They reached all but one in time. He, too, was left for dead,
but was revivifiable. The gold he was carrying almost paid for his
revivification.</p>

<p>I wasted no more time. I got in touch with Wyrn and
Miraf&rsquo;n and told them to return at once. They did so.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sit down. Okay. This bag contains three thousand gold
Imperials. I want you two to figure out where they&rsquo;re
planning to take out H&rsquo;noc&mdash;he runs the brothel
that&rsquo;s just up the street. Find out where the assassin is,
and get him. I don&rsquo;t know if you two have ever
&lsquo;worked&rsquo; before, and I don&rsquo;t care. I think
you&rsquo;re up to this; if you don&rsquo;t, tell me. There&rsquo;s
probably only one of them. If there&rsquo;s more, just get one. You
can use H&rsquo;noc as a decoy if you want, but you only have about
another hour until we&rsquo;re past our usual delivery time. After
that, they&rsquo;ll probably be suspicious. Do you want the
job?&rdquo;</p>

<p>They looked at each other, and, I imagine, spoke about it
psionically. Wyrn turned back to me and nodded. I passed the bag
over.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Go do it, then.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They stood up and teleported out. About then I noticed that
Kragar had come in. &ldquo;Well?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I went ahead and arranged for them to bring in the gold
over the next two days, except for Tarn, who can teleport. He
should be in any time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. We&rsquo;re broke again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I explained what I&rsquo;d done. He looked doubtful, then
nodded. &ldquo;I guess you&rsquo;re right, it&rsquo;s the best
thing to do. But we&rsquo;re hurting, Vlad. Are you going to be
able to get more where we got that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shook his head. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re learning too slow.
He&rsquo;s staying ahead of us. We can&rsquo;t keep this
up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;By Barlen&rsquo;s scales, I know it! But what should we
do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He looked away. He didn&rsquo;t have any better idea than I
did.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Don&rsquo;t sweat it, boss,</em>&rdquo; said Loiosh.
&ldquo;<em>You&rsquo;ll think of something.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I was pleased someone was feeling optimistic.</p>

<br>
<hr size="0">
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide4.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide6.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

