<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Shadow Games</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="games.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide2.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide4.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">Chapter Two: THE ROAD SOUTH</h2>

<p>&ldquo;The farther we come, the more it looks like
spring,&rdquo; One-Eye observed. He was in a good mood.</p>

<p>I caught the occasional glint of mischief brewing in
Goblin&rsquo;s eyes too, lately. Before long those two would find
some excuse to revive their ancient feud. The magical sparks would
fly. If nothing else, the rest of us would be entertained.</p>

<p>Even Lady&rsquo;s mood improved, though she spoke little more
than before.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Break&rsquo;s over,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Otto, kill the
fire. Goblin. You&rsquo;re point.&rdquo; I stared down the road. Another
two weeks and we would be near Charm. I had not yet revealed what
we had to do there.</p>

<p>I noticed buzzards circling. Something dead ahead, near the
road.</p>

<p>I do not like omens. They make me uncomfortable. Those birds
made me uncomfortable.</p>

<p>I gestured. Goblin nodded. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll go now,&rdquo; he
said. &ldquo;Stretch it out a bit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Murgen gave him an extra fifty yards. Otto and Hagop gave Murgen
additional room. But One-Eye kept pressing up behind Lady and I,
rising in his stirrups, trying to keep an eye on Goblin. &ldquo;Got
a bad feeling about that, Croaker,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;A bad
feeling.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Though Goblin raised no alarm, One-Eye was right. Those
doombirds did mark a bad thing.</p>

<p>A fancy coach lay overturned beside the road. Two of its team of
four had been killed in the traces, probably because of injuries.
Two animals were missing.</p>

<p>Around the coach lay the bodies of six uniformed guards and the
driver, and that of one riding horse. Within the coach were a man,
a woman, and two small children. All murdered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hagop,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;see what you can read from
the signs. Lady. Do you know these people? Do you recognize their
crest?&rdquo; I indicated fancywork on the coach door.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Falcon of Rail. Proconsul of the empire. But he
isn&rsquo;t one of those. He&rsquo;s older, and fat. They might be
family.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hagop told us, &ldquo;They were headed north. The brigands
overtook them.&rdquo; He held up a scrap of dirty cloth.
&ldquo;They didn&rsquo;t get off easy themselves.&rdquo; When I did
not respond he drew my attention to the scrap.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Grey boys,&rdquo; I mused. Grey boys were imperial troops
of the northern armies. &ldquo;Bit out of their
territory.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Deserters,&rdquo; Lady said. &ldquo;The dissolution has
begun.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Likely.&rdquo; I frowned. I had hoped decay would hold
off till we got a running start.</p>

<p>Lady mused, &ldquo;Three months ago travelling the empire was
safe for a virgin alone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She exaggerated. But not much. Before the struggle in the
Barrowland consumed them, great powers called the Taken watched
over the provinces and requited unlicensed wickedness swiftly and
ferociously. Still, in any land or time, there are those brave or
fool enough to test the limits, and others eager to follow their
example. That process was accelerating in an empire bereft of its
cementing horrors.</p>

<p>I hoped their passing had not yet become a general suspicion. My
plans depended on the assumption of old guises.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shall we start digging?&rdquo; Otto asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;In a minute,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;How long ago did it
happen, Hagop?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Couple of hours.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And nobody&rsquo;s been along?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, yeah. But they just went around.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Must be a nice bunch of bandits,&rdquo; One-Eye mused.
&ldquo;If they can get away with leaving bodies laying
around.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe they&rsquo;re supposed to be seen,&rdquo; I said.
&ldquo;Could be they&rsquo;re trying to carve out their own
barony.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Likely,&rdquo; Lady said. &ldquo;Ride carefully,
Croaker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I raised an eyebrow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to lose you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>One-Eye cackled. I reddened. But it was good to see some life in
her.</p>

<p>We buried the bodies but left the coach. Civilized obligation
fulfilled, we resumed our journey.</p>

<p>Two hours later Goblin came riding back. Murgen stationed
himself where he could be seen on a curve. We were in a forest now,
but the road was in good repair, with the woods cleared back from
its sides. It was a road upgraded for military traffic.</p>

<p>Goblin said, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s an inn up ahead. I don&rsquo;t
like its feel.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Night would be along soon. We had spent the afternoon planting
the dead. &ldquo;It look alive?&rdquo; The countryside had gotten
strange after the burying. We met no one on the road. The farms
near the woods were abandoned.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Teeming. Twenty people in the inn. Five more in the
stables. Thirty horses. Another twenty people out in the woods.
Forty more horses penned there. A lot of other livestock,
too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The implications seemed obvious enough. Pass by, or meet trouble
head-on?</p>

<p>The debate was brisk. Otto and Hagop said straight in. We had
One-Eye and Goblin if it got hairy.</p>

<p>One-Eye and Goblin did not like being put on the spot.</p>

<p>I demanded an advisory vote. Murgen and Lady abstained. Otto and
Hagop were for stopping. One-Eye and Goblin eyeballed one another,
each waiting for the other to jump so he could come down on the
opposite side.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We go straight at it, then,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;These
clowns are going to split but still make a majority
for&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; Whereupon the wizards ganged
up and voted to jump in just to make a liar out of me.</p>

<p>Three minutes later I caught my first glimpse of the ramshackle
inn. A hardcase stood in the doorway, studying Goblin. Another sat
in a rickety chair, tilted against the wall, chewing a stick or
piece of straw. The man in the doorway withdrew.</p>

<p>Grey boys Hagop had called the bandits whose handiwork we
encountered on the road. But grey was the color of uniforms in the
territories whence we came. In Forsberger, the most common language
in the northern forces, I asked the man in the chair, &ldquo;Place
open for business?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo; Chair-sitter&rsquo;s eyes narrowed. He
wondered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;One-Eye. Otto. Hagop. See to the animals.&rdquo; Softly,
I asked, &ldquo;You catching anything, Goblin?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Somebody just went out the back. They&rsquo;re on their
feet inside. But it don&rsquo;t look like trouble right
away.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Chair-sitter did not like us whispering. &ldquo;How long you
reckon on staying?&rdquo; he asked. I noted a tatoo on one wrist,
another giveaway betraying him as an immigrant from the north.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just tonight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;re crowded, but we&rsquo;ll fit you in
somehow.&rdquo; He was a cool one.</p>

<p>Trapdoor spiders, these deserters. The inn was their base, the
place where they marked out their victims. But they did their dirt
on the road.</p>

<p>Silence reigned inside the inn. We examined the men there as we
entered, and a few women who looked badly used. They did not ring
true. Wayside inns usually are family-run establishments, infested
with kids and old folks and all the oddities in between. None of
those were evident. Just hard men and bad women.</p>

<p>There was a large table available near the kitchen door. I
seated myself with my back to a wall. Lady plopped down beside me.
I sensed her anger. She was not accustomed to being looked at the
way these men were looking at her.</p>

<p>She remained beautiful despite road dirt and rags.</p>

<p>I rested a hand upon one of hers, a gesture of restraint rather
than of possession.</p>

<p>A plump girl of sixteen with haunted bovine eyes came to ask how
many we were, our needs in food and quarters, whether bath water
should be heated, how long we meant to tarry, what was the color of
our coin. She did it listlessly but right, as though beyond hope,
filled only with dread of the cost of doing it wrong.</p>

<p>I intuited her as belonging to the family who rightfully
operated the inn.</p>

<p>I tossed her a gold piece. We had plenty, having looted certain
imperial treasures before departing the Barrowland. The flicker of
the spinning coin sparked a sudden glitter in the eyes of men
pretending not to be watching.</p>

<p>One-Eye and the others clumped in, dragged up chairs. The little
black man whispered, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a big stir out in the
woods. They have plans for us.&rdquo; A froggish grin yanked at the
left corner of his mouth. I gathered he might have plans of his
own. He likes to let the bad guys ambush themselves.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s plans and plans,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;If
they are bandits, we&rsquo;ll let them hang themselves.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He wanted to know what I meant. My schemes sometimes got more
nasty than his. That is because I lose my sense of humor and just
go for maximum dirt.</p>

<p>We rose before dawn. One-Eye and Goblin used a favorite spell to
put everyone in the inn into a deep sleep.</p>

<p>Then they slipped out to repeat their performance in the woods.
The rest of us readied our animals and gear. I had a small skirmish
with Lady. She wanted me to do something for the women kept captive
by the brigands.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I try to right every wrong I run into, I&rsquo;ll
never get to Khatovar.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She did not respond. We rode out minutes later.</p>

<p>One-Eye said we were near the end of the forest. &ldquo;This
looks as good a place as any,&rdquo; I said. Murgen, Lady, and I
turned into the woods west of the road. Hagop, Otto, and Goblin
turned east. One-Eye just turned around and waited.</p>

<p>He was doing nothing apparent. Goblin was busy, too.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What if they don&rsquo;t come?&rdquo; Murgen asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then we guessed wrong. They&rsquo;re not bandits.
I&rsquo;ll send them an apology on the wind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nothing got said for a while. When next I moved forward to check
the road One-Eye was no longer alone. A half-dozen horsemen backed
him. My heart twisted. His phantoms were all men I had known, old
comrades, long dead.</p>

<p>I retreated, more shaken than I had expected. My emotional state
did not improve. Sunlight dropped through the forest canopy to
dapple the doubles of more dead friends. They waited with shields
and weapons ready, silently, as befit ghosts.</p>

<p>They were not ghosts, really, except in my mind. They were
illusions crafted by One-Eye. Across the road Goblin was raising
his own shadow legion.</p>

<p>Given time to work, those two were quite the artists.</p>

<p>There was no doubt, now, even who Lady was.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hoofbeats,&rdquo; I said, needlessly.
&ldquo;They&rsquo;re coming.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My stomach turned over. Had I bet to an inside straight? Taken
too long a shot? If they chose to
fight&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;If Goblin or One-Eye
faltered&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Too late for debate, Croaker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I looked at Lady, a glowing memory of what she had been. She was
smiling. She knew my mind. How many times had she been there
herself, albeit on a grander game board?</p>

<p>The brigands pounded down the aisle formed by the road. And
reined in in confusion when they saw One-Eye awaiting them.</p>

<p>I started forward. All through the woods ghost horses moved with
me. There was harness noise, brush noise. Nice touch, One-Eye. What
you call verisimilitude.</p>

<p>There were twenty-five bandits. They wore ghastly expressions.
Their faces went paler still when they spied Lady, when they saw
the specter-banner on Murgen&rsquo;s lance.</p>

<p>The Black Company was pretty well known.</p>

<p>Two hundred ghost bows bent. Fifty hands tried to find some
sky-belly to grab. &ldquo;I suggest you dismount and disarm,&rdquo;
I told their captain. He gulped air a few times, considered the
odds, did as directed. &ldquo;Now clear away from the horses. You
naughty boys.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They moved. Lady made a gesture. The horses all turned and
trotted toward Goblin, who was their real motivator. He let the
animals pass. They would return to the inn, to proclaim the terror
ended.</p>

<p>Slick. Oh, slick. Not even a hangnail. That was the way we did
it in the old days. Maneuver and trickery. Why get yourself hurt if
you can whip them with a shuffle and con?</p>

<p>We got the prisoners into a rope line where they could be
adequately controlled, then headed south. The brigands were greatly
exercised when Goblin and One-Eye relaxed. They didn&rsquo;t think
it was fair of us.</p>

<p>Two days later we reached Vest. With One-Eye and Goblin again
supporting her grand illusion, Lady remanded the deserters to the
justice of the garrison commander. We only had to kill two of them
to get them there.</p>

<p>Something of a distraction along the road. Now there was none,
and Charm drew closer by the hour. I had to face the fact that
trouble beckoned.</p>

<p>The bulk of the Annals, which my companions believed to be in my
possession, remained in Imperial hands. They had been captured at
Queen&rsquo;s Bridge, an old defeat that still stings. I was
promised their return shortly before the crisis in the Barrowland.
But that crisis prevented their delivery. Afterward, there was
nothing to do but go fetch them myself.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide2.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide4.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

