<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide31.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide33.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">30</h2>

<p>I was right. The heights were the key to the pass. But no genius
was needed to figure that out, was it?</p>

<p>Renewed fighting began with a shower of firebombs. For the first
time our entire front discharged bamboo poles uphill. Lady foamed
at the mouth, cursing the waste.</p>

<p>Once again the Prahbrindrah Drah had been awarded the honor of
the first charge.</p>

<p>It was hard to believe that Mogaba&rsquo;s soldiers had not been
obliterated by the preparatory barrage but the Prince ran into
fierce, stubborn resistance. The Shadowlanders fought ferociously
now because they saw no other options. Their training took over,
the way it is supposed to do in deadly situations. The Prince
pushed hard but got nowhere.</p>

<p>Mogaba had managed to create a small reserve mostly out of
imagination. He shuttled them here and there, applying mind, spirit
and will to his own salvation. But he was accursed. And his curse
was his lunatic employer.</p>

<p>Longshadow was nothing if not flexible when his own ass was in a
sling. Till now the whole point of existence had been to hold the
pass against the Black Company. The world would end if we crossed
the Dandha Presh. But when the fireballs started zipping around his
ears, sizzling black pockmarks out of the tower, he developed a new
idea. He told Howler, &ldquo;Get your carpet ready. General. Summon
the Deceiver Singh, the child, and your five most valuable
officers.&rdquo; Of a sudden he seemed entirely calm, totally
rational, completely in control, apparently the sort of supreme
ruler any man would prefer.</p>

<p>Howler stared at him half a minute before he nodded. The little
wizard wore a mask of his own but that did not hide his
contempt.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Withdrawal at this point would be premature,&rdquo;
Mogaba said. I was about ready to concede that the man was a saint.
A devil saint, but a saint nonetheless. His patience seemed almost
infinite. Longshadow was worse than a spoiled child. I wondered how
he had become so powerful. &ldquo;The situation can be retrieved if
you&rsquo;ll just let me do it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You will do as I tell you, General.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I suppose. Just as I have for four years. Which has
brought us to this. The finest army of this age is being brought to
despair by men who have only to design strategies that exploit the
egotism, fears and fantasies of one wizard whose knowledge of
things material does not extend to which end of a spear you grasp.
I find that they are, by the by, astonishingly well informed about
your character flaws.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Mogaba brushed Howler with a jaundiced glance. Paranoia and
suspicion were not exclusive to our side. Neither were private
agendas.</p>

<p>Longshadow sputtered in outrage.</p>

<p>Mogaba did not let up. &ldquo;I will not summon my captains. I
will not abandon my positions or desert my troops simply because
your courage has deserted you. If you wish to go, go. Let us fight.
We may die in fires sent up by the Senjak woman but at least no man
of mine will be cut down from behind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Longshadow sputtered. He was about to go berserk.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Find some backbone, man. Find the guts to let the
professionals do their jobs. Make your soldiers want to fight for
you.&rdquo; Mogaba turned his back on the Shadowmaster.
&ldquo;Messenger.&rdquo; He sent word to the heights above that he
was not pleased with the way things were going there.</p>

<p>A tall Shadar with an exceptional arm was lobbing firebombs
fearfully close to Mogaba&rsquo;s tower. He had Narayan and the
Daughter of Night very nervous down below.</p>

<p>For a while I thought Mogaba was going to carry his point and
get away with his rebellion. He scattered messengers everywhere,
steadying his troops. And Longshadow actually calmed down after a
few minutes instead of flying into an inarticulate rage. He was
reflective for quite some time. I feared that Mogaba had gotten
through and convinced him of the truth that there was no better
ground to meet us, no better men to fight us, no better commander
to crush us. I feared his well honed instinct for self-preservation
had kicked in.</p>

<p>Then some darkness gradually enveloped the Shadowmaster. I could
have sworn that it did not come from within him.</p>

<p>Longshadow squealed like a wounded hog. He stomped and shrieked
in a tongue no one understood and fell to his knees. He shuddered
all over, having some sort of seizure. This was not like his usual
fits of rage. He moaned and wept and talked in a way that made me
wonder if even he understood what he was saying. Everyone on the
tower gaped. Howler looked around like he expected incoming trouble
of the cruelest kind. I took a swift look at Lady but found her
doing nothing. She was just more alert than usual, sensing
something but not knowing what it might be.</p>

<p>Whimpering, Longshadow climbed to his feet. He faced Mogaba. He
began to stomp and shriek while he did something with his skinny,
gloved fingers.</p>

<p>Mogaba suddenly dropped like he had gotten crowned by an axe
handle.</p>

<p>Longshadow raged at the waiting messengers. He sent one to
summon Singh and the child, others after his preferred officers.
Those couriers went without any enthusiasm, which you would expect
of guys who had just heard they were going to be allowed to stay
behind and die so their nutcase boss could make his getaway.</p>

<p>Only the man sent for Narayan Singh actually did his job. The
rest decided to get a head start hiking south. They saw no reason
to accept betrayal.</p>

<p>Our guys on the heights managed to get a few firebombs into the
structure of the observation tower. A sniper plinked away with a
bamboo pole. His marksmanship left plenty to be desired. But those
little balls of fire would not fly as predictably as an arrow.</p>

<p>Longshadow had Mogaba carried onto Howler&rsquo;s carpet. Howler
said nothing though I thought it was obvious he agreed with Mogaba
that the day was not yet lost.</p>

<p>Hell, it seemed to me they were a lot more afraid of Lady than
they needed to be. I thought one big sorcerous shitstorm would take
care of her. But maybe she had them fooled. Maybe Howler remembered
the old days too well to go head-to-head with her now.</p>

<p>No matter. They were not willing to employ their strengths.</p>

<p>The carpet Howler had brought to Charandaprash was far larger
than the one that he had had damaged earlier. It could haul a dozen
people and all their gear.</p>

<p>Longshadow stopped raging. He seemed baffled by his own
behavior, once actually whispering, &ldquo;What have I done
now?&rdquo; He knew that he had screwed up but he was the kind of
guy who, after he shoots his mouth off, cannot back down or admit
any failing. The world is full of those people. All of us would be
better off if their fathers would strangle them as soon as they
showed signs of being that way. This particular fool was willing to
sacrifice an army rather than admit his error.</p>

<p>A dozen men were on the platform when Singh and the child
arrived. Mostly they were messengers not yet sent out. A few were
officers. As Narayan and the Daughter of Night boarded the carpet
even the dumbest soldiers realized that the big boys were running.
After Longshadow stepped aboard and started to rave again, those
about to be left decided not to stay. They joined the rush as
Howler lifted the carpet. The carpet shuddered, sank to one side,
banged off the edge of the platform, started sliding sideways
toward the cliff.</p>

<p>Instantly firebombs came down. Soldiers dodged. The carpet
wobbled worse. Men fell off. A firebomb scored. As the flames
spread Howler gained better control. The carpet headed south,
staggering like a drunken comet.</p>

<p>The men on the heights opened up with their bamboo gizmos.
Howler dodged madly through the shitstorm. He did not dodge
everything. Longshadow&rsquo;s desperate sorceries barely kept them
from being eaten alive.</p>

<p>What was wrong with Lady? This was her chance. The villains were
preoccupied with saving their own butts. If she brought them down
now the thing would be done. And Narayan Singh and the kid would be
ours for the collection.</p>

<p>Came a sound like ten thousand competing whispers, like a
million, like a hundred million, swelling into the rush of a
cyclone. It passed me, invisible, and chased up the pass. A
horror-struck silence occupied its wake. It must have been a
hundred times as terrifying outside the ghostworld. Soldiers from
both sides put down their arms to watch.</p>

<p>Howler loosed a wail of despair heard above all the other
racket. That woke up the gawkers on the cliffs who really had
nothing better to do than blow fireballs at flying wizards. The
fireworks show resumed, redoubled.</p>

<p>Howler headed for the ground. His companions&rsquo; help was
inadequate. He could not fly and fight at the same time. The carpet
hit hard. Soldiers were thrown all over the slopes, Mogaba among
them. Most just ran for it. Mogaba, when he recovered
consciousness, began stumbling back toward his troops, oblivious to
the shitstorm around him. He must have had divine dispensation
because no harm found him.</p>

<p>Despite the flatness of the ghostworld I felt a surge of
elation. We had them! This battle was won. This war was moments
from being over! Lady&rsquo;s whispering witchery would gnaw away
at Howler and the Shadowmaster while the guys on the cliffs
inundated them with fireballs.</p>

<p>The expanse and depth of the Captain&rsquo;s ambush, crafted
over years, all predicated upon the Shadowmaster&rsquo;s character,
was only now emerging from the shadows. It overwhelmed me, not just
because it had worked but because every contingency had been
foreseen. Only he and his gods knew what else he had been ready
for. There were tons of materiel down there still unused.</p>

<p>It was over. The road was open. I started back to
One-Eye&rsquo;s wagon. We would have to move fast to make sure the
Company stayed in a position to take advantage. First thing might
be to get all our Company brothers together.</p>

<p>How long before I learn not to rack my eggs up as guaranteed
fryers?</p>

<p>The Old Man was not trying to provoke the response he got.
Neither was Lady, though she might have feared it. I do not believe
Croaker had any idea anything of the sort was possible.</p>

<p>I was almost to the wagon when the ghost realm filled with a
stench like somebody just kicked open all the tombs that ever were.
I had not encountered much in the way of smells there before and
all those had been nothing compared to this.</p>

<p>Fear hit me. Panic was a scant half step behind. I got out of
there fast, before the fear made it impossible for me to recall how
to escape.</p>

<p>Back up the canyon the Daughter of Night stood atop a boulder,
oblivious to the fireballs streaking past, her little arms uplifted
to greet oncoming darkness, summoning, her lips taut in an evil
smile.</p>

<p>Something was coming. Something that I had glimpsed before.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide31.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide33.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

