<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Dreamstone</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="dream.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide17.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide19.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter"><u>SEVENTEEN</u></h2>

<h3 class="chapter">The Summoning of the Sidhe</h3>

<p class="noindent">She walked quickly, and that was swiftly indeed, through the
mists which rimmed her world, into the soft green moonlight on the
silver trees. The deer and other creatures stared at her and came
no nearer.</p>

<p>And when she had come to the heart of Eald, that grassy mound
starred with flowers, and the circle of aged trees, then all of
Eald hushed, even to the warm breeze which sported there. Moonlight
glistened and glowed in the hearts of stones which hung on the tree
of memory, and on the silver swords which hung nearby, and the
armor and the treasures which held the magics of Eald. The magics
slept, but for what sustenance they gave. Sleeping too, were the
memories of all the faded Daoine Sidhe, which were the life of
Eald.</p>

<p>She cast off the aspect she wore for Men, stood still a moment
listening for the faintest of sounds, and then for no sound at all,
but the whispering of elven voices. From one to the other stone she
walked, touched them gently and drew their memories into life, so
that none slept, not the least or the greatest.</p>

<p>And in the world of Men, Ciaran shuddered, and stared at the
fire before them, feeling a stirring which shivered through the very
earth. All that Men stood upon seemed like gossamer, threatening to
tear.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What is wrong?&rdquo; asked Branwyn. &ldquo;What do you
feel?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The world is shaken,&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I feel
nothing,&rdquo; she said, as if to reassure him; but it did
not.</p>
<br>
<p>Eald stirred. Arafel stood amid the grove and looked about her
and listened; and at last went among the treasures of Eald and
gathered up armor ages untouched, which had been hers. She put it
on, mail shining like the moon itself, and took up her bow, and
shafts tipped with ice-clear stone and silver. She took up her
sword, and gathered the sword of Liosliath, his bow and all his
arms. She climbed the knoll, laid down her burden, and sat down
with her sword across her knees. She shut her eyes to Eald as it
was, and listened to the stones.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Eachthighearn,&rdquo; she whispered to the air, and the
silence trembled. A breeze began, which whispered down the green
grass of the knoll and set the leaves to stirring and the stones to
singing.</p>

<p>It moved farther, coursing narrowly through the trees, across
the meadows, making flowers nod, and the hares which moved by
moonlight looked up and froze.</p>

<p>It touched the waters of Airgiod, and skimmed them with a little
shiver.</p>

<p>It blew among the trees the other side of Airgiod, and branches
stirred.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Eachthighearn: lend me your children.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The breeze blew along the distant flanks of hills, making them
shiver, a nodding of grasses; and it traveled farther still.</p>

<p>Then it began to blow back again, through hills and forest,
recrossing Airgiod&rsquo;s quiet waters, into meadows and into the
grove, stirring the grasses of the knoll, with sighings of the
swaying stones and a faint tang of sea breeze, recalling mist, and
partings, and the cries of gulls.</p>

<p>Arafel shuddered in that wind, and the grayness beckoned. A
taint of melancholy came over her, but she held fast to her stone,
and opened her eyes and saw the grove as it was.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Fionnghuala!&rdquo; she called. &ldquo;Fionnghuala!
Aodhan!&rdquo;</p>

<p>The breeze fled back again, laden with the green glamor of Eald,
with sweet grass and shade, with summer warmth. It fled away, and
the air grew still.</p>

<p>Then a wind began to blow returning, softly at first; and with
greater and greater force in its coming, rattling the branches and
making Airgiod&rsquo;s waters shiver, flattening the grasses and
sweeping like storm into the grove, where the stones blazed with
sudden light. The sky was clear, the stars pure, the moon undimmed,
but storm crackled in the air, whipped the leaves, and Arafel
sprang to her feet, holding the sword in her two hands. The force
of lightnings stood about, shivered in her blowing hair and played
about the swords in the trees. Thunder began, far away and growing
in the wind, stirring like deepest song to the lighter chiming of
the stones and the rush of leaves.</p>

<p>And with the wind came brightness in the night, one and the
other, like moons coursing close to earth, with thunder in their
hooves and moonlight for their
manes&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;above the earth they ran, together,
as they had always coursed side by side.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Fionnghuala!</em>&rdquo; Arafel hailed them.
&ldquo;Aodhan!&rdquo;</p>

<p>The elven horses came to her in a skirling of wind, and the
thunders bated as they circled her, as pale Fionnghuala stepped
close and breathed in her presence with velvet nostrils shot with
fire, gazed at her with eyes like the deer, wide and wonderful.
Aodhan snuffed the breeze and shook his head in a scattering of
light, stamped the ground and shook it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Arafel sadly. &ldquo;He is not here. But
<em>I</em> ask, Aodhan.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The bright head bowed and lifted. She belted her sword at her
side and took up the arms which had been Liosliath&rsquo;s.
Fionnghuala came to her, whickering. She seized the bright mane in
one hand and swung up, and Fionnghuala stamped and turned, with
Aodhan beside. The pace quickened and the wind scoured the trees,
swept the grass, a flicker of lightnings crackling in the manes and
in her hair.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Caer Wiell,&rdquo; Arafel said to them, and Fionnghuala
ran, easily above the ground. The mist lay before them, but the
wind swept into it, and lightnings lit it, making clear the shapes
long lost there, the upper course of Airgiod, the shapes of faded
trees. Shadows were caught by surprise and fled in terror, wailing
down the wind as thunder took a steady beat and mists were
scattered.</p>

<p>Lightning blazed in Caer Wiell&rsquo;s court, danced there, with
thunder-mutterings&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;stood still, and
horses and rider looked on chaos, a gateway near to yielding, a
scattering of men in flight from the terror which had broken in
their midst. &ldquo;Ciaran!&rdquo; she called. &ldquo;I am
here!&rdquo;</p>

<p>And Ciaran rose from his place beside the fire, no more there,
no more holding the hand of Branwyn, whose voice wailed after him
in grief.</p>

<p>He stood in the courtyard, with the stone burning like fire
against his heart, with lightnings crackling about him and above
him&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;and the dreams were true.</p>

<p>Arafel slid down, a gleam of silver armor, and held out such
armor to him in both her arms. He took it and put it on, buckled on
the elvish sword, and all the while his heart was chilled,
for the cold went from it to the center of him, and the lightnings
surrounded them. The human day was murky, clouded; but they stood
in otherwhere, and elven moonlight was cast on them, pale green;
night went about them, an aura of storm, and of the two horses, he
knew one for his.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Aodhan,&rdquo; he named him. &ldquo;Aodhan.
Aodhan.&rdquo; And the horse came to him, stood waiting.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not yet,&rdquo; said Arafel, for there were others about
them, human folk, who huddled against the wind, faces stark and
frightened in the reflected glow, women and children and wounded
men. They had no word to say to her; there were none from her to
them. She walked toward the gate with Ciaran at her side and the
elvish horses walked after.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Scaga,&rdquo; Ciaran said, lifting his hand toward the
wall. &ldquo;Scaga,&rdquo; she repeated, and the old warrior looked
down from the chaos on the walls, his face distraught.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What you can do,&rdquo; Scaga said, &ldquo;we beg you
do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Beware, Scaga, what you have already asked. You have
horsemen; ready them to ride with us, if they will.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The old warrior stood still several beatings of a mortal heart.
He was wise, and feared them. But he called men to him, and came
down the stairs, shouted orders at boys, and commanded the horses
saddled. Arafel stood still, thoughtfully took her bow from off her
shoulder, and strung it. She might, she thought, go to the wall,
might aid them there. But iron arrows flew in plenty, and there was
time enough for that.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mind,&rdquo; she said to Ciaran, &ldquo;when you ride the
shadow-ways, you are safe from iron&mdash;but you cannot strike at
Men. Shift in and out of them; that is wisest&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We can die,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;&mdash;can we
not?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Not while you wear the stone.
There is the fading. And there are other fates, Ciaran. Death is
out there. Step into the shadow-ways and you will see him. Leave Men
to me, where Men want killing. I am kinder than you know how to be.
The arrows&mdash;save them: they are too dire for Men.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then what shall I do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ride with me,&rdquo; she said softly. &ldquo;When one can
do much&mdash;wisdom must guide the hand, or folly
will.&mdash;Hist, they are ready.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Boys and men brought the horses of the keep, handled, a
clattering in the yard, and men ran from the defense of the walls
and the gate to take them. Aodhan whickered softly and Fionnghuala
saluted them too, and the mortal steeds herded together, ears
pricked, nostrils straining. But Arafel walked among them, touched
one and the other, named them their true names, and calmed them.
&ldquo;He is Whitetip,&rdquo; she told a rider; &ldquo;and she if
Jumper. Call them true and they are yours.&rdquo; The Men stared at
her, but none durst question, not even Scaga, Whitetip&rsquo;s
rider.</p>

<p>She looked toward the gate, which tottered beneath the ram.
Fionnghuala stepped closer to her, dipped her head and shook it
impatiently.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do not leave me,&rdquo; she bade Ciaran. &ldquo;You have
compelled my help. I do not compel: I ask.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am by you,&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Scaga,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Bid them open the gates.&rdquo;
And quietly, to Ciaran: &ldquo;Oftenest, Men see what they will,
and cannot truly see us. Even these. Well for them they do
not.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do I,&rdquo; he asked, &ldquo;see you as you
are?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I cannot know,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;But I know you.
And you had power to call my name. One must see to do
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He said nothing. She seized Fionnghuala&rsquo;s mane and swung
to her back. He mounted Aodhan, and the horse suffered it with a
shiver, a flaring and quivering of the nostrils, for it was not his
rider, but Ciaran knew the dream about his neck, of which Aodhan
was part. Fionnghuala tossed her head, and the wind rose.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide17.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide19.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

