<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Dawn of Amber</title>
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="amber.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide2.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide4.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">ONE</h2>

<h3 class="chapter">THE PRESENT</h3>

<p>A heavy pounding on the door downstairs roused me from
sleep.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Obere!&rdquo; came a distant shout. Damnable timing. I
squinted into near darkness, frowned. The hour lay somewhere
between midnight and dawn, and blades of moonlight slid between the
window shutters, cutting an intricate pattern of light and darkness
across the checkered quilt. Off in the night I heard plodding
hooves and creaks from some passing merchant&rsquo;s wagon, and
from farther off still the distant baying of packs of wild dogs as
they scavenged the battlefields a mile to the north of
Kingstown.</p>

<p>The pounding on the door resumed. Feigning sleep wouldn&rsquo;t
work; somehow, King Elnar&rsquo;s agents&mdash;probably that all
too efficient Captain Iago&mdash;had tracked me down.</p>

<p>I tried to sit up and found a soft arm pinning my chest. Helda
hadn&rsquo;t yet heard a thing; her breathing remained deep and
regular. I half chuckled to myself. Too much wine, too much love.
She would sleep through the sacking of Kingstown, given half a
chance.</p>

<p>As gently as I could, I slid out from under her, leaving the
warm sweet smells of perfume and sweat and incense that filled her
bed. I made a reassuring murmur at her puzzled sound and quickly
gathered up pants, shirt, boots, and sword.</p>

<p>Damnable timing indeed. My first night alone with Helda in
nearly two months, and King Elnar couldn&rsquo;t wait till dawn to
summon me back. Price of being one of his right-hand men, I
supposed. Still, Captain Iago&mdash;or whoever the king had sent to
find me&mdash;might have had the sense to let me stay lost at least
a few hours more. It was seldom enough we had time to rest, but
since the hell-creatures had been quiet now for nearly a week, King
Elnar had granted me a night&rsquo;s leave. I had tried to make the
best of it, drinking my way through Kingstown&rsquo;s half dozen
taverns before joining Helda at her house to continue a more
private celebration into the late hours.</p>

<p>Carrying my belongings, I padded quickly down the steps. First
things first. I had to halt that racket before the whole town was
up in arms. The hell-creatures had driven us back steadily over the
last six months, and with the front lines of the war close to
Kingstown, King Elnar&rsquo;s troops now policed the
streets&mdash;not that they needed much attention, since
three-quarters of the inhabitants had fled. No need to rouse the
night watch for a mere summons back to camp. I sighed, half in
apprehension. What calamity had befallen us this time? Something
bad must have happened to drag me back in the middle of the night.
Had our scouts spotted new enemy movements? Or perhaps the
hell-creatures had mounted another sneak-attack on our supply
lines?</p>

<p>The pounding ceased as I rattled back the bar and flung open the
heavy wooden door.</p>

<p>&ldquo;By the six hells&mdash;&rdquo; I began.</p>

<p>My curse died away unfinished. It wasn&rsquo;t Captain
Iago&mdash;or any of the other officers under King Elnar&rsquo;s
command. It was a stranger, a thin little man of perhaps forty with
long black hair tied behind his head and a sharp gleam in his eye.
He raised his lantern and peered up at me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Obere?&rdquo; he demanded.</p>

<p>I towered a good head and a half over him, but that didn&rsquo;t
matter. He had a powerful presence, much like King Elnar&mdash;the
sort of man you instinctively looked at whenever he entered a room,
or listened to whenever he spoke. He was clean-shaven, dressed in
red-and-gold silks with a strange rampant-lion crest stitched in
gold and silver thread on the blouse, and I caught the scents of
dressing-powder and lavender.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe,&rdquo; I said cautiously, feeling for my
sword&rsquo;s hilt, wondering who he was and what he wanted.
&ldquo;You are&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is you!&rdquo; he said, grasping my arm. &ldquo;The
years have changed you&mdash;but it is good to see you
alive!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who are you,&rdquo; I demanded, shrugging off his hand,
&ldquo;and what in all the hells do you think you&rsquo;re doing
here at this hour?&rdquo; No matter who he was, I did not
appreciate being awakened from my much-needed and much-deserved
rest. It was one thing to receive the king&rsquo;s summons and
quite another to be roused by a stranger.</p>

<p>His voice was quiet. &ldquo;Has it been so long you no longer
know me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have no idea who&mdash;&rdquo; I began. Then I paused
and looked at him. <em>Really</em> looked at him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uncle Dworkin?&rdquo; I whispered. It had been ten years
since I&rsquo;d last set eyes on him. He had worn his hair cropped
short in those days, and he had seemed much, much taller.</p>

<p>Dworkin smiled and bowed his head. &ldquo;The very
same.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&mdash;how&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>He waved me to silence. &ldquo;Later. You must come with me, and
quickly. I have sent for a carriage. I assure you, this cannot
wait. You will come with me, <em>Now</em>.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was a command, not a suggestion.</p>

<p>I gave a bark of a laugh. &ldquo;Go with you? Just like
that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t. I&rsquo;m due back at camp in the morning.
I&rsquo;m no longer a child, Dworkin&mdash;I have duties and
responsibilities you cannot imagine.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is a matter of life and death.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Whose?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yours&mdash;and King Elnar&rsquo;s. I cannot say more
than that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That made me pause. &ldquo;What about King Elnar?&rdquo; I asked
slowly. My duty was clear: to protect and serve first the king and
second all of Ilerium. If Dworkin knew something of such great
importance that it endangered King Elnar&rsquo;s life, I had to
report it at once.</p>

<p>He shook his head, though. &ldquo;Later. When we are safely away
from here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I took a deep breath. Dworkin wasn&rsquo;t really my
uncle&mdash;he had been a close friend of my parents. When my
father died at the hands of pirates from Saliir shortly after my
birth, Dworkin had practically adopted my mother and me. Perhaps it
was because he had had no children or family of his own, but I had
come to view him as almost a father. It had been Dworkin who played
soldier with me, brought me treats on high holidays, and took me
hunting in the fields beyond our house at Piermont as if I were his
own true son. It had been Dworkin who presented me with my first
real sword, and Dworkin who began the training in arms that had
ultimately become my livelihood. That is, until he disappeared
following my mother&rsquo;s death from the Scarlet Plague. That had
been just after my fourteenth birthday. Those had been crazy times,
mad times, with death in the air and fear in every heart. After the
death-cart took my mother&rsquo;s body away, she and Dworkin were
both simply <em>gone</em>, I had always assumed he&rsquo;d died in
the plague, too.</p>

<p>And now he stood before me, smug as you please, expecting me to
drop everything and go off with him for reasons he wouldn&rsquo;t
share beyond claiming it was a matter of life or death to both the
king and me. It was impossible.</p>

<p>Instead of filial love and devotion, I felt a sudden towering
rage at having been abandoned.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not going anywhere,&rdquo; I growled at him,
&ldquo;unless you explain exactly what you mean. See my orderly in
the morning, if you like, and I&rsquo;ll breakfast with you in my
tent. We can catch up with each other then. And you&rsquo;d better
have a damned good explanation&mdash;for everything!&rdquo;</p>

<p>I started to shut the door.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You will not be alive in the morning if you remain
here,&rdquo; he said softly.</p>

<p>I hesitated, looked into his face, searching&mdash;for what, I
didn&rsquo;t know. Truth, perhaps. Or maybe some sign that he still
cared for me. After all, my mother was gone now. Perhaps he had
only befriended me to get to her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Explain,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There is no time!&rdquo; He glanced up the street as if
expecting to see someone or something, but the street remained
deserted. &ldquo;My carriage will be here soon. Dress yourself, and
be quick about it. We must be ready.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What does this have to do with the king? You said it
involved him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, though he does not yet know it himself. But if you
come with me now, I promise that the invasion of your world will be
over within the week. I can say no more.&rdquo;</p>

<p><em>The invasion of your world.</em> I did not like the sound of
that, but I held back a flood of questions demanding to be asked.
Somehow, though I didn&rsquo;t understand why, I found I wanted to
trust Dworkin.</p>

<p>And if he really knew something that could end our war with the
hell-creatures, I owed it to King Elnar to listen. I had never
known Dworkin to lie. For the sake of my oath to the king and
Ilerium, for my childhood and all the kindness Dworkin had showered
on my mother and me, I decided I would take him at his
word&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;for now.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very well.&rdquo; I handed him my sword and hurriedly
began pulling on my pants.</p>

<p>He remained nervous and apprehensive, glancing up the street
every few seconds. He had volunteered little information, I
realized, but perhaps I could extract more with an indirect line of
questioning.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where have you been all these years?&rdquo; I asked.
&ldquo;I thought you were dead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Traveling,&rdquo; he said absently.
&ldquo;My&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;business took me far from
here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You could have sent messages.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You didn&rsquo;t need them. I would have been a
distraction for you. Had you known I was alive, you would have
given up your commission and come looking for me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I pulled on my shirt and began lacing the front. &ldquo;You
don&rsquo;t know that!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course I do. I know you, Obere, better than you know
yourself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shifted slightly, glancing again in the direction of the
battlefield outside town. I paused, straining to hear, but even the
distant scavenging dogs had grown silent. That seemed an ominous
sign.</p>

<p>More slowly, Dworkin went on. &ldquo;Friends have been sending
me reports now and again of you and your career. From raw soldier to lieutenant in ten years is quite a
remarkable feat. You have done your parents proud.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;King Elnar rewards deeds more than accidents of
birth.&rdquo; I shrugged and began to link my shirt-cuffs.
&ldquo;Less than half his officers have noble
bloodlines.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So I have heard.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And I owe much to your training.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded slightly. &ldquo;You were an apt student. But
don&rsquo;t discount your own talents&mdash;you were born to
greatness.&rdquo;</p>

<p>As I buckled on my swordbelt, I found I began to share his
apprehension. A strange, almost expectant hush had fallen over the
street&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;over all of Kingstown. Not an
insect chirped, not a bat winged overhead, not a single dog howled
in the distance. An unpleasant tension hung over everything around
us, like the calm before a storm.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They are near, I think,&rdquo; Dworkin said softly.
&ldquo;Even the animals sense
it&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The enemy. Those you call hell-creatures.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You say it like they have some other name.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They do.&rdquo; He looked at me and smiled. &ldquo;But in
this place, they are merely soldiers, like you or I.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not like me! And when have you ever been a
soldier?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He chuckled, a strange gleam in his eye. &ldquo;You have more in
common with them than you realize. We both do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I gave a derisive snort, not enjoying the idea. That
hell-creatures should be here in Kingstown, behind our lines,
seemed unlikely. And yet Dworkin certainly appeared to know more
about them than King Elnar&rsquo;s own agents. Nobody on our side
knew where they came from originally, or how many they
numbered&mdash;they had swept down from the north a year ago in a
vast horde, destroying villages, murdering men, women, and children
alike by the thousands. King Elnar had marched his army against
them at once and fought them to a standstill. But slowly, over the
months, their numbers swelled and they advanced on us again and
again, driving us ever back, until presently they controlled half
of Ilerium.</p>

<p>How did Dworkin know so much, when our own agents knew so
little? I found it disconcerting to say the least. And it raised
more than a few danger flags in my mind.</p>

<p>I tried to take a mental step backward. It was a trick I had
taught myself, to try to see more than what was readily apparent.
Who was Dworkin, really? What business could possibly have taken
him away in the midst of the Scarlet Plague, when every country in
the world had shut its ports to our ships?</p>

<p>I suddenly realized then how little I actually knew about my
&ldquo;uncle.&rdquo; When you are a child, you take adults for
granted. Dworkin had been a part of my life for so long, I had
never thought to question his origins or his business or even his
phenomenal skill with a sword, for he had certainly been on par
with any master I had trained with in the last decade.</p>

<p>As I leaned against Helda&rsquo;s house and pulled on my boots,
I studied him. His strange clothing, his long absence, his
swordsmanship, and his ability to keep track of
me&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I could only reach one conclusion: he
had to be a spy. But for whom?</p>

<p>At least he seemed to fear the hell-creatures. No man who has
looked into their slitted red eyes, or fought against their
wickedly barbed swords and fire-breathing horses, can come away
unchanged.</p>

<p>I finally decided that he had to be working for one of the
neighboring kingdoms. And they had good cause to fear&mdash;if the
hell-creatures continued their advance, they would control all of
Ilerium within the year, and then they would be free to attack Tyre
or Alacia or any of the other Fifteen Kingdoms.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where is your carriage?&rdquo; I asked, taking back my
sword.</p>

<p>He looked to the right, down the street. &ldquo;I hear it coming
now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I loosened my blade in its scabbard and stood straighten.
Clearly Dworkin had gone to a lot of trouble to track me
down&mdash;I had made doubly sure nobody knew where I would be
sleeping tonight, from King Elnar to my orderly. And clearly, from
his unceremonious pounding on the door, Dworkin truly did fear for
my life.</p>

<p>But why should <em>my</em> life be in danger? I frowned. I was
but one of a dozen lieutenants under King
Elnar&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;a well decorated hero, true enough,
but hardly a pivotal figure in the war. It didn&rsquo;t make
sense.</p>

<p>The clatter of iron-shod wheels on cobblestones slowly grew
louder. Dworkin exhaled heavily and seemed to relax as an odd
little carriage sped around the corner half a block away.</p>

<p>I gaped at it. It was shaped almost like a pumpkin, with smooth
curved sides that might have been made of milky glass, and it
glowed with an eerie phosphoric light, illuminating the whole
street. Strangest of all, it had neither horses to pull it nor a
driver to steer it, though it had an empty bench on top.</p>

<p>Magic.</p>

<p>I&rsquo;d seen a few itinerant sorcerers visit King
Elnar&rsquo;s court over the years, but such were few and far
between in this part of the world, and usually their magics were
more flash and fancy: parlor tricks and elegant illusions to
delight ladies after dinner. For Dworkin to have a sorcerer of
considerable power at his disposal showed how important his mission
here must be.</p>

<p>I&rsquo;d had some little acquaintance with magic myself over
the years. As a boy, I&rsquo;d discovered I had the ability to
change the features of my face when I concentrated on it, and
I&rsquo;d practiced secretly until I could make myself look like
almost anyone I&rsquo;d ever met. When they found out, both Dworkin
and my mother had strongly discouraged this talent. And since such
tricks are little use in combat, I&rsquo;d barely even thought of
it for years.</p>

<p>As the carriage neared, white lace curtains at the side windows
fluttered briefly. I thought I glimpsed a woman&rsquo;s pale face
peering out at us, lips blood red and eyes dark. Could she be
steering it from inside?</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hurry,&rdquo; Dworkin said urgently, taking my elbow and
propelling me toward the carriage. I quickened my pace to keep up.
&ldquo;We must&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>At that second, the building behind us exploded. The force of it
knocked me flat to the ground, and I scrambled awkwardly to my
feet, palms and elbows and knees all stinging from scrapes on
cobblestones.</p>

<p>Unbelieving, I stared at what remained of Helda&rsquo;s house.
Emerald flames shot a hundred feet in the air. The whole building,
from stoop to attic, blazed with an unholy green fire. I had seen
its like before on the battlefield&mdash;sometimes hell-creatures
hurled fiery missiles at us, and they burned with those same green
flames.</p>

<p>The heat was incredible. From somewhere inside I heard a woman
screaming. Helda&mdash;I had to save her!</p>

<p>I started for the door, but Dworkin caught my arm and yanked me
to a halt. His grip had iron in it, and I could not wrench away
despite my own great strength.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Obere, no!&rdquo; He had a crazed, almost desperate look
in his eye.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I love her!&rdquo; I screamed. &ldquo;I love
her&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She is dead!&rdquo; He had to shout to be heard over the
roar of the flames.</p>

<p>Above the conflagration, the roof suddenly fell in with a
grinding crash. Green sparks streamed up toward the night sky. The
whole building began to sag, threatening to collapse inward as the
support beams burned through.</p>

<p>I staggered back, imagining her soul flying up to the heavens.
Ash and embers began a gentle, hot rain on our heads.</p>

<p><em>Dworkin.</em></p>

<p>He had known, somehow, that this attack was going to happen.
How?</p>

<p>Whirling, I grabbed him by his silk shirt and with one hand
raised him a foot off the ground. It&rsquo;s an impressive trick at
any time, and over the years I&rsquo;d taken the fight out of a
dozen barroom brawlers by one-handing them into the air, then
tossing them out the nearest door or window as though they weighed
nothing. &ldquo;Do you know who is responsible for this?&rdquo; I
demanded, shaking him. &ldquo;How did you know the hell-creatures
would attack here tonight? Who are you spying for? Is the king in
danger?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He broke my grip with a sudden toe to the stomach that sent me
reeling back, gasping for breath. I hadn&rsquo;t been hit that hard
since the time a horse kicked me during the battle at
Sadler&rsquo;s Mill. Dworkin&rsquo;s blow would have stunned or
perhaps even killed most men, but I shook it off and came up
growling, ready for a fight. My blade hissed from its scabbard as I
drew it and pointed the tip at his face.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I knew an attack would come against you tonight,&rdquo;
Dworkin said warily, staying beyond my reach. &ldquo;But I did not
know what form it would take.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And the king. How is he involved in this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He is not&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;yet. The
hell-creatures are searching for something. King Elnar is just in
the way. Now, do not be a fool, my boy. You are alive because of
me. Had I wanted you dead, I could have left you in the house to
burn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I hesitated, looking at the house, unable to deny the truth. She
was dead, my Helda, my sweet little Helda&mdash;she was dead, and
there was nothing I could do about it now, except make an offering
to the gods who guard the underworld.</p>

<p>Then Dworkin&rsquo;s head jerked to the side and he stared,
tense all over, like a rabbit about to bolt. In that second, I
heard the horses too. There were perhaps a dozen, perhaps more,
approaching fast. I pivoted, sword ready.</p>

<p>They rounded the corner and came into sight. The moon lay to
their backs, but I could see the riders&rsquo; glowing red eyes and
the fiery red breaths of their black steeds. They pounded toward
us, swords raised, and let loose wild, gibbering war-cries</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide2.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide4.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

