<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide53.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide55.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">52</h2>

<p>I told the Old Man about the troops shooting over the
Shadowgate. He scowled blackly. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think
that&rsquo;s a good idea.&rdquo; He bellowed for a courier. He sent
out a strong suggestion to our brothers with the division to the
south. &ldquo;No crows around here,&rdquo; I noted.</p>

<p>&ldquo;One-Eye custom-built me a spell I can use to make them
get hungry and go away for a while. But not forever.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I got the hint. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think we&rsquo;re doing
enough to support Lady&rsquo;s men inside Overlook.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker shrugged. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not concerned about Overlook
anymore. Much.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? Not worried about Longshadow? Howler? Narayan Singh
and your&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the Daughter of
Night?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t get me wrong. I&rsquo;m not indifferent. They
just don&rsquo;t matter as much as they did.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I must&rsquo;ve missed something. What&rsquo;re you
saying?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m just suggesting it, Murgen. But we could go on
south now. If we wanted. If I&rsquo;m right about the
standard.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; I said. No flies on
me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The standard has to be the key to the Shadowgate. I think
we could walk right through and keep on going, without any danger,
as long as we carry the standard.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; I said again, but
this time I had a few more thoughts. &ldquo;You mean we could just
get everybody together, say screw you to the rest of this mob, and
trot off singing merry marching songs?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Exactly.
Maybe.&rdquo; So he was not completely sure.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wouldn&rsquo;t that leave a lot unsettled? Not to mention
risk opening the Shadowgate the wrong way?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Longshadow is the master of the Shadowgate. He can keep
it sealed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What if he can&rsquo;t?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker shrugged. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t owe
anybody&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;You just got finished telling me
the Radisha is still fixing to screw us. The Prahbrindrah Drah was
up to something down here. Howler is no friend of ours and Catcher
has been helping me only because she thinks that&rsquo;ll help her
get an angle on Lady.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got a wife out there, Boss. And she&rsquo;s
got a bun in the oven. Not to mention Goblin and his crew. Whom I
can&rsquo;t find, but I&rsquo;m sure they&rsquo;re out there
somewhere, on some mystery mission from you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hmm? Didn&rsquo;t think about that. There&rsquo;s no
mystery. Goblin&rsquo;s job is to be forgotten. Then he&rsquo;s
supposed to be in the right place if the Prince runs out on us. Or
decides to pull some other stunt where we could use some help that
comes from the blind side.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I grunted. It might be true. Or it might only be what he wanted
me to think. I set it aside. I could answer the question using
Smoke if I was determined and clever and felt any real need. I
asked, &ldquo;What about Singh? You just going to walk away from
him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I did not believe Lady would accept that. It was hard to tell
what was going on inside her head but I did think that no one and
nothing would make her walk away while Narayan Singh remained in
good health.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been letting things work themselves out.
I&rsquo;ll go on doing that for a while. But when the moment comes
I won&rsquo;t hesitate to take the Company on down the road to
Khatovar.&rdquo; His voice turned cold and hard and confidently
formal.</p>

<p>I was getting angry. That was not good. I told him, &ldquo;I
think I&rsquo;d better excuse myself now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just in time, too.&rdquo; He flashed a wan smile.</p>

<p>One of his huge crows had shoved its beak into the room. If it
was possible for a bird to look puzzled this one did.</p>

<p>It also smelled. It had lunched in the ruins.</p>

<p>I asked One-Eye, &ldquo;How much weight should we put on our
contract with the Taglians?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uhn?&rdquo; He gave me nothing but the puzzled grunt. He
wanted me to go away so he could play with his still.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I mean are we obligated to keep our part of the bargain
until they actually try to screw us?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s your problem?&rdquo; He gestured. There were
no snoopy beaks over here.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Old Man&rsquo;s talking about walking on past
Overlook. Forgetting Longshadow and everything else. Leaving them
to enjoy each other while we head on south.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That idea startled the little wizard. He stopped trying to get
rid of me. &ldquo;He figured out how we could do that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He thinks maybe. I don&rsquo;t think he knows for sure.
But I do believe he&rsquo;s willing to test it the hard
way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s not good. That could bring on a shitstorm
the likes of which&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Like nothing we can
imagine, probably. Like something out of the myths.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought so, too. He could be just shooting his mouth
off. But it might be a good idea to remind him that we still
haven&rsquo;t read those three missing volumes of the Annals.
I&rsquo;ve got a feeling we shouldn&rsquo;t overlook
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>One-Eye does not have a quarter of my faith in the Annals, nor a
tenth of Croaker&rsquo;s, but he grimaced. &ldquo;A good point.
I&rsquo;ll remind him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Subtly? You hit him with a hammer, he tends to get
stubborn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Subtly? You know me, Kid. I&rsquo;m slicker than greased
owl shit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I do know you. That&rsquo;s what scares me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what&rsquo;s got into your generation.
You got no trust. You got no respect.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And not much patience with bullshitters, either,&rdquo; I
admitted. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got journals to write. Not to mention
worries to worry.&rdquo; And food to eat. I was hungry again. Much
as I ate when I was walking the ghost I should have gotten too fat
to waddle.</p>

<p>I joined my in-laws beside their fire. Mother Gota dished me up
a bowl of whatever it was she kept simmering in her pot. Nobody
said anything. I had not talked to them much lately. They had begun
to suspect that I was not real social anymore. I wondered why the
old woman would not do her cooking inside. Thai Dei and I had set
her up a whole private suite in our ever-expanding dugout but she
would go inside only when the weather turned foul or it was time to
sleep.</p>

<p>Thai Dei did most of the work on our shelter. There was not much
else for him to do. He was not involved in the schemes of his
mother and Uncle Doj.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo; I told Mother Gota as I finished.
&ldquo;I needed that.&rdquo; I could not compliment her on her
cooking. If ever she did screw up and make something palatable she
would not buy the real thing. She never did claim any culinary
skills.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You,&rdquo; she said, initiating conversation, which she
did rarely, &ldquo;Bone Warrior, you are wary of crows? They are
significant?&rdquo; Her Taglian was abominable. I spoke Nyueng Bao
much better but she would not do me the courtesy. I suppose that
would, somehow, lend legitimacy to my relationship with Sahra.</p>

<p>I stopped trying to make sense of Mother Gota&rsquo;s thinking
years ago.</p>

<p>I responded in Nyueng Bao. &ldquo;They carry messages sometimes.
They spy. We know this. Mice and bats do the same. Those who use
the animals aren&rsquo;t our friends.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I exceeded myself telling her that much. Croaker would not be
pleased. But I was fishing. It would be nice to find out what she
knew or suspected. Sometimes she just could not help showing
off.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have seen owls in the night, too, Stone Soldier. They
do not behave the way owls should.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I grunted. That was news. And it told me that if owls were being
used and no one else had noticed, then the old woman was a lot
sharper than I had suspected.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Last night many crows came and went from the shining
fortress.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I looked at her more closely. Last night. While Thai Dei and I
were in town with the lost boys. While she was traipsing through
the night with Uncle Doj. She had seen something that I missed.
Maybe.</p>

<p>Crows had been scarce near Overlook lately. Longshadow had taken
a dislike to the dark harbingers. His crystal turrets were
surrounded with nasty little spells that worked like trapdoor
spiders, striking when birds came too close.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s interesting,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;That
might be something new.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There have been crows before.
But never so many.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uhm.&rdquo; What went on in there last night that
Soulcatcher found so interesting? I had seen nothing abnormal
today. It might be worth checking.</p>

<p>Maybe I was being worked. Maybe Uncle Doj and Mother Gota were
bound to start checking out the oddities they had noticed about my
behavior in recent months. Maybe they were getting ready to do
whatever Croaker suspected they were going to do. If he did
anything more than just suspect.</p>

<p>He suspected everybody of something.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The one who flies went out last night, Soldier of
Darkness.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah.&rdquo; She was trying to manipulate me. She knew I
hated those enigmatic titles first employed by her father, Ky Dam.
The old Speaker never explained them and Mother Gota would not
waddle where her dad had refused to tread. &ldquo;That is
interesting.&rdquo; There had been no aerial sightings of the
Howler for a while. He liked to use spells of concealment when he
was aloft, though.</p>

<p>She wanted me to ask questions so she could toy with me and
frustrate me. The information she had given was all I was going to
get. Right now.</p>

<p>I refused to play her game. I turned to Thai Dei. &ldquo;Did I
just get promoted to honorary member of the tribe?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shrugged. He seemed mildly surprised that his mother had told
me anything at all.</p>

<p>I did not rush right over to visit Smoke. If that was what the
old woman wanted I meant to disappoint her in a big way. I tended
to chores, helped Thai Dei work on our dugout, ate again, drank
plenty, worked on the Annals for a while. I could change nothing
that had happened during the night. And whatever that was, it had
not been so earthshaking that it was an immediate threat.</p>

<p>One-Eye actually made it easy. Shortly after sundown he came
over with a clay pot. &ldquo;Soup&rsquo;s ready,&rdquo; he said. He
sloshed the pot&rsquo;s contents. The stink of a really bad
beverage quickly filled my dugout.</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right!&rdquo; I got up and followed him into the
darkness.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide53.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide55.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

