<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide3.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide5.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">2</h2>

<p>&ldquo;I got to do everything,&rdquo; One-Eye grumbled. &ldquo;Anything
that&rsquo;s got to be done, just stick it on old One-Eye.
He&rsquo;ll take care of it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sneered. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s only if you can&rsquo;t find
Murgen first.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m too old for this shit, Kid. I ought to be
retired.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The little black man had a point. According to the Annals he is
about two hundred years old, still alive mostly because of his own
clever sorcery. And good luck beyond what any human being
deserves.</p>

<p>The two of us were inside a dark circular stairway, lugging a
body down on a litter. Smoke did not weigh much but One-Eye made
the job a pain in the ass anyway. &ldquo;You about ready to trade
off?&rdquo; I asked. I had the uphill end. I am more than six feet
tall. One-Eye goes five feet if you stand him on a thick book. But
he is a stubborn little shit who can never admit that he is
wrong.</p>

<p>For some reason One-Eye had it in his head that the downhill end
of a litter would be the easy one to handle on a stairway.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. I think. When we get down to the next
landing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I grinned in the darkness. That would leave us with just one
story to go. Then I grumbled, &ldquo;I hope that damned Sleepy is
on time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Though barely eighteen Sleepy is a four year veteran of the
Company. He went through the fire of Dejagore with us. He still has
a tendency to be late and a little irresponsible but, hell, he is
still awful young.</p>

<p>Youth made him the best man to be driving a wagon around Taglios
in the middle of the night if you did not want to attract
attention. A Vehdna Taglian, he could pass as an apprentice easily.
He could not be expected to know what he was doing. Apprentices do
what they are told. Their masters seldom feel obliged to explain to
them.</p>

<p>The kid would have no clue what he was up to tonight. If he
arrived on time he would not guess his part for years. He was
supposed to wander off before the wagon acquired its mysterious
burden.</p>

<p>One-Eye would take over after we loaded Smoke. He would explain,
if he found himself in a position where that became necessary, that
the corpse back there was Goblin. No one would know the difference.
Smoke had not been seen at all for four years and seldom publicly
before that. And Goblin had not been around for a while because the
Old Man sent him off on a mission weeks ago.</p>

<p>Anybody running into One-Eye would know who he was right away.
He is the most recognizable member of the Company. His ugly old
black hat gives him away even in the dark. It is so damned filthy
it glows.</p>

<p>I exaggerate only slightly.</p>

<p>People would believe One-Eye because everyone in Taglios knows
the nasty little runt runs with a toad-faced little white wizard
called Goblin.</p>

<p>The trick would be to distract them from Smoke&rsquo;s skin
color. Or One-Eye could put a glamor on him and make him actually
look enough like Goblin to deceive the Taglian eye.</p>

<p>Eventually somebody would discover that Smoke no longer was in
the Palace. Probably later. By accident. When somebody stumbled
through the network of confusion spells surrounding the room where
Smoke had lain hidden for years.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Somebody&rdquo; would be the Radisha Drah. She and Uncle
Doj are the only people besides me and Croaker and One-Eye who know
Smoke is still alive, if unutterably lost in the land of coma.</p>

<p>He is more useful now than he ever was when he was conscious and
the secret court wizard.</p>

<p>Smoke had been as thoroughly craven as it is possible for a
human to be.</p>

<p>We reached the landing. One-Eye damned near dropped his end of
the litter. He was in a hurry to take a break. &ldquo;Let me know
when you&rsquo;re ready,&rdquo; I told him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t got to go smart-assing me, Kid.&rdquo; He
muttered a few words in a dead tongue, which was totally
unnecessary and entirely for show. He could have said the same
thing in Taglian and have achieved the same result. Which was that
a globe of shimmering swamp gas materialized above his ugly
hat.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Did I say anything?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t got to talk, Kid. You&rsquo;re grinning
like a shiteating dog.&rdquo; But he was puffing too hard to keep
it up. &ldquo;Old fart&rsquo;s heavier than he looks, isn&rsquo;t
he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He was. Maybe because he was all lard after four years asleep,
getting his sustenance as soup and gravy and any other sludge I can
spoon down him.</p>

<p>He is a mess to take care of. I would let him croak if he was
not so damned useful.</p>

<p>The Company wastes no love on this man.</p>

<p>Maybe I like him better unconscious than conscious, though we
never butted heads personally. I have heard so many horror stories
about his cowardice that I cannot say much in his favor at all.
Well, he was a modestly effective fire marshal when he was awake.
Fire is an enemy Taglios knows far more intimately than any remote
Shadowmaster.</p>

<p>If he had not been such a chickenshit and gone over to
Longshadow he would not be in the sad shape he is now.</p>

<p>For reasons unclear even to One-Eye, Smoke&rsquo;s comatose
spirit is anchored to his flesh very loosely. Making a connection
with his ka, which is what they might call it around here, is easy.
It takes instructions well. I can connect with him, detach from my
flesh and ride him almost anywhere, to see almost anything. Which
is why he is so special to us today. Which is why it is so critical
to keep everything about him under wraps.</p>

<p>If we succeed in this dark war, victory will come largely
because we can &ldquo;walk with the ghost.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m ready to go,&rdquo; One-Eye said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You come back fast for an old fart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You keep running your jaw, Kid, you&rsquo;re never gonna
get a chance to find out what it&rsquo;s like to be old enough to
deserve respect but not to get none from pups like you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t go picking on me because Goblin ran out on
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where the hell is that stunted mouse turd,
anyway?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I knew. Or thought I knew. I walk with the ghost. One-Eye did
not need to know, though, so I did not clue him in. &ldquo;Lift the
damned litter, limberdick.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I just know you&rsquo;re going to enjoy life as a
polecat, Kid.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We hoisted the litter. Smoke made a gurgling sound. Foamy spit
dribbled from the corner of his mouth. &ldquo;Hustle up. I need to
get his mouth cleaned out before he drowns himself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>One-Eye saved his breath. We clumped down the stairs. Smoke
began making strangling noises. I kicked the door open and went
through without looking outside first. We got into the street.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Put him down,&rdquo; I snapped. &ldquo;Then cover us
while I take care of him.&rdquo; Who knew what might be watching?
Taglian nights conceal countless curious eyes. Everyone wants to
know what the Black Company is doing. We take it as a given that
some of those are people we do not even know yet.</p>

<p>Paranoia is a way of life.</p>

<p>I knelt beside the litter, tipped it a little and turned
Smoke&rsquo;s head. It flopped like he had no bones in his neck.
Smoke gurgled and hacked some more.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hush,&rdquo; One-Eye said.</p>

<p>I looked up. A tall Shadar watchman was headed our way, carrying
a lantern. One of the Old Man&rsquo;s innovations, the night-time
foot patrols have crippled enemy espionage efforts. Now our
creativity was about to turn around on us.</p>

<p>The turbaned soldier walked past so close his grey pants
actually brushed me. But he sensed nothing.</p>

<p>One-Eye is no master sorcerer but he does a hell of a job when
he concentrates.</p>

<p>Smoke made that noise again.</p>

<p>The Shadar stopped, looked back. His eyes widened. They were
about all that could be seen between his turban and his massive
beard. I do not know what he saw but he touched his forehead and
swept his fingers in a quick half circle ending over his heart.
That was a ward against evil common to all the peoples of
Taglios.</p>

<p>He moved on hurriedly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What did you do?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Never mind,&rdquo; One-Eye said. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s get
him loaded.&rdquo; The wagon was waiting right where Sleepy was
supposed to leave it. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s going to report something.
He&rsquo;ll have his whole family here in a few minutes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The watchmen were equipped with whistles. Our man remembered his
and started tooting as One-Eye lifted his end of the litter. In
seconds another whistle answered. &ldquo;He going to keep that shit
up?&rdquo; One-Eye asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll lay him on his side.
The phlegm should drain off. But you&rsquo;re the guy who knows the
medical stuff. If he&rsquo;s coming down with pneumonia you better
start working on him now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Go teach granny to suck eggs, Kid. Just shove the little
bastard in the wagon, then get your ass back through that
door.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shit. I think I forgot to wedge it open.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;d call you a dumb shit but you keep ragging me
about stating the obvious. Unh!&rdquo; He swung his end of the
litter into the bed of the wagon. Good boy Sleepy had remembered to
leave the tailgate down, exactly as he had been instructed.
&ldquo;I remembered for you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You were the last one out anyway.&rdquo; Damn, would I be
glad when Goblin came back and One-Eye could get back to feuding
with him. I shoved my end of the litter.</p>

<p>One-Eye was scrambling up to the driver&rsquo;s seat already.
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t forget to get that gate up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I twisted Smoke&rsquo;s shoulders so his mouth would drain,
raised the tailgate and dropped the oak pins into their slots.
&ldquo;You check on him as soon as you&rsquo;re clear.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up and get out of here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Whistles were shrieking all around us now. Sounded like every
watchman on duty was closing in.</p>

<p>Their interest was going to attract that of others. I ran for
the postern door. Steel tires began to rattle on cobblestones
behind me.</p>

<p>One-Eye was going to get a chance to test our cover story.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide3.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide5.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

