<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The White Rose</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="rose.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide43.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide45.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">Chapter Forty-Three:<br>
PICNIC</h2>

<p>Put on any deadline and time accelerates. The clockwork of the
universe runs off an overwound mainspring. Four days went down the
Jakes, zip! And I did not waste much time sleeping.</p>

<p>Ardath and I translated. And translated. And translated. She
read, translating aloud. I wrote till my hands cramped.
Occasionally Silent took over for me.</p>

<p>I spot-checked by slipping in documents already done, especially
those both Tracker and I had worked. Not once did I catch a
misinterpretation.</p>

<p>That fourth morning I did catch something. We were doing one of
those lists. This soiree must have been so big that if held today,
we&rsquo;d call it a war. Or at least a riot. On and on. So-and-so
of such-and-such, with Lady Who&rsquo;s-is, sixteen titles, four of
which made sense. By the time the heralds finished proclaiming
everyone, the party must have died or encroaching senility.</p>

<p>Anyway, along about the middle of the list I heard a little
catch in her breath. Aha! I said to myself. A bolt strikes close.
My ears pricked up.</p>

<p>She went on smoothly. Moments later I was not sure I had not
imagined it. Reason told me the name that startled her would not be
the one she was speaking. She was toddling along at my writing
pace. Her eyes would be well ahead of my hand.</p>

<p>Not one of the names that followed clanged any bell.</p>

<p>I would go over the list later, just in case, hoping she had
deleted something.</p>

<p>No such luck.</p>

<p>Come afternoon she said, &ldquo;Break, Croaker. I&rsquo;m going
for tea. You want some?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure. Maybe a hunk of bread, too.&rdquo; I scribbled
another half minute before realizing what had happened.</p>

<p>What? The Lady herself offering to fetch? Me putting in an order
without thinking? I got a case of the nerves. How much was she
role-playing? How much pretending for fun? It must be centuries
since she got her own tea. If ever.</p>

<p>I rose, started to follow, halted outside my cell door.</p>

<p>Fifteen steps down the tunnel, in the grungy, feeble lamplight,
Otto had cornered her against the wall. He was talking some shit.
Why I had not foreseen the problem I do not know. I doubted that
she had. Surely it was not one she faced normally.</p>

<p>Otto got pushy. I started to go break it up then vacillated. She
might be angered by my interference.</p>

<p>A light step from the other direction. Elmo. He paused. Otto was
too single-minded to notice us.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Better do something,&rdquo; Elmo said. &ldquo;We
don&rsquo;t need that kind of trouble.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She did not appear frightened or upset. &ldquo;I think maybe she
can handle it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otto got a &ldquo;no&rdquo; that could not be misinterpreted.
But he did not accept it. He tried to lay hands on.</p>

<p>He got a ladylike slap for his trouble. Which angered him. He
decided to take what he wanted. As Elmo and I moved forward, he
disappeared in a flurry of kicks and punches that set him down in
the muck on the floor, holding his belly with one arm and that arm
with the other. Ardath went on as though nothing had happened.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;I told you she could handle it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Remind me not to overstep myself,&rdquo; Elmo said. Then
he grinned and tapped my arm. &ldquo;Bet she&rsquo;s mean on the
horizontal. Eh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Damned if I did not blush. I gave him a foolish grin. It only
confirmed his suspicions. What the hell. Anything would have. That
is the way those things go.</p>

<p>We lugged Otto to my room. I thought he would puke up his guts.
But he controlled himself. I checked for broken bones. He was just
bruised. &ldquo;All yours, Elmo,&rdquo; I said, for I knew the old
sergeant was rehearsing a few choice words.</p>

<p>He took Otto by the elbow and said, &ldquo;Step down to my
office, soldier.&rdquo; He started dirt tumbling from the tunnel
overheads when he explained the facts of life.</p>

<p>When Ardath returned she behaved as if nothing had happened.
Perhaps she missed us watching. But after half an hour she asked,
&ldquo;Can we take a break? Go outside? Walk?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You want me to come?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded. &ldquo;We need to talk. Privately.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>To tell the truth, whenever I lifted my nose from my work I got
a little claustrophobic myself. My venture westward reminded me how
good it is to stretch one&rsquo;s legs. &ldquo;Hungry?&rdquo; I
asked. &ldquo;Too serious to make a picnic?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She looked startled, then charmed, by the idea. &ldquo;Good.
Let&rsquo;s do that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>So we went to the cook and baker and filled a bucket and went
topside. Though she did not notice everyone smirking, I did.</p>

<p>There is but one door in the Hole. To the conference room,
behind which Darling&rsquo;s personal quarters lie. Neither my
quarters nor Ardath&rsquo;s had so much as a curtain closure. Folks
figured we were off for the privacy of the wide open spaces.</p>

<p>Dream on. Up there there would be more spectators than down
below. They just would not be human.</p>

<p>The sun was maybe three hours short of setting when we stepped
outside, and it smacked us right in the eyes. Rough. But I expected
it. Should have warned her.</p>

<p>We strolled up the creek, breathing slightly sagey air and
saying nothing. The desert was silent. Not even Father Tree
stirred. The breeze was insufficient to sigh in the coral. After a
while I said, &ldquo;Well?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I needed to get out. The walls were closing in. The null
made it worse. I feel helpless down there. It preys on the
mind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We rounded a coral head and encountered a menhir. One of my old
buddies, I guess, for he reported, &ldquo;There are strangers on
the Plain, Croaker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No lie?&rdquo; Then: &ldquo;Which strangers, rock?&rdquo;
But it had nothing more to say.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re always like that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Or worse. Well. The null begins to fade. Feel
better?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I felt better the moment I stepped outside. That&rsquo;s
the gate to Hell. How can you people live like that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It isn&rsquo;t much, but it&rsquo;s home.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We came to bare earth. She halted. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Old Father Tree. You know what they think we&rsquo;re up
to, down there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know. Let them think it. Call it protective coloration.
That is your Father Tree?&rdquo; She indicated Himself.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s him.&rdquo; I walked on. &ldquo;How you
doing today, old-timer?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Must be fifty times I have asked that. I mean, the old guy is
remarkable, but just a tree. Right? I did not expect a response.
But Father Tree&rsquo;s leaves started tinkling the moment I
spoke.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come back here, Croaker.&rdquo; The Lady&rsquo;s voice
was commanding, hard, a little shaken. I turned and marched.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Back to your old self?&rdquo; From the corner of my eye I
caught a shadow in motion, off toward the Hole. I concentrated on a
bit of coral and nearby brush. &ldquo;Keep your voice down. We have
an eavesdropper.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s no surprise.&rdquo; She spread the ragged
blanket she had brought, sat down with her toes right at the edge
of the barren. She removed the rag covering the bucket. I settled
beside her, positioned so I could watch that shadow. &ldquo;Do you
know what that is?&rdquo; she asked, nodding at the tree.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nobody does. It&rsquo;s just Old Father Tree. The desert
clans call him a god. We&rsquo;ve seen no evidence of that. One-Eye
and Goblin were impressed with the fact that he stands almost
exactly on the geographical center of the Plain, though.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes. I suppose&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;So much was
lost in the fall. I should have
suspected&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;My husband was not the first
of his kind. Croaker. Nor the White Rose the first of hers. It is a
grand cycle, I believe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve lost me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A very long time ago, even as I measure time, there was
another war like that between the Dominator and the White Rose. The
light overcame the shadow. But as always, the shadow left its taint
on the victors. In order to end the struggle, they summoned a thing
from another world, plane, dimension, what-have-you, the way Goblin
might conjure a demon, only this thing was an adolescent god. Of
sorts. In a sapling avatar. These events were legendary only in my
youth, when much more of the past survived, so details are open to
question. But it was a summoning of such scope, and such price,
that thousands perished and counties were devastated. But they
planted their captive god over the grave of their great enemy,
where it would keep him enchained. This tree-god would live a
million years.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You mean?&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Old Father is
sitting on something like the Great Barrow?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I did not connect the legends and the Plain till I saw
that tree. Yes. This earth constrains something as virulent as my
husband. So much suddenly makes sense. It all fits. The beasts. The
impossible talking rocks. Coral reefs a thousand miles from the
sea. It all leaked through from that other world. The change storms
are the tree&rsquo;s dreams.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She rattled on, not so much explaining as putting things
together for herself. I gaped and remembered the change storm that
caught me on the way west. Was I accursed, to be caught in a
god&rsquo;s nightmare?</p>

<p>&ldquo;This is crazy,&rdquo; I said, and at the same instant
decrypted the shape I had been trying to pry from the shadows,
bushes, and coral.</p>

<p>Silent. Squatting on his hams, motionless as a snake awaiting
prey. Silent, who had been everywhere I went the last three days,
like an extra shadow, seldom noticed because he was Silent. Well.
So much for my confidence that my return with a companion had
tickled no suspicions.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This is a bad place to be, Croaker. Very bad. Tell that
deaf peasant wench to move.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I did that, I would have to explain why and reveal who
gave me the advice. I doubt she would be impressed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I suppose you&rsquo;re right. Well, it won&rsquo;t matter
much longer. Let&rsquo;s eat.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She opened a packet and set out what looked like fried rabbit.
But there are no rabbits on the Plain. &ldquo;For all they got
kicked around, their adventure toward Horse improved the
larder.&rdquo; I dug in.</p>

<p>Silent remained motionless in the corner of my eye. You bastard,
I thought. I hope you&rsquo;re drooling.</p>

<p>Three pieces of rabbit later I slowed enough to ask, &ldquo;That
about the old-timer is interesting, but does it have any
relevance?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Father Tree was raising a ruckus. I wondered why. &ldquo;Are you
afraid of him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She did not answer. I chucked bones down the creek bank, rose.
&ldquo;Back in a minute.&rdquo; I stomped over to Father Tree.
&ldquo;Old-Timer, you got any seeds? Any sprouts? A little
something we could take to the Barrowland to plant on top of our
own villain?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Talking to that tree, all those times heading past, was a game.
I was possessed of an almost religious awe of its age, but of no
conscious belief in it as anything like either the nomads or the
Lady claimed. Just a gnarly old tree with weird leaves and a bad
temper.</p>

<p>Temper?</p>

<p>When I touched it, to lean against it while looking up among its
bizarre leaves for nuts or seeds, it bit me. Well, not with teeth.
But sparks flew. The tips of my fingers stung. When I took them out
of my mouth they looked burned. &ldquo;Damn,&rdquo; I muttered, and
backed off a few steps. &ldquo;Nothing personal, tree. Thought you
might want to help out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Vaguely, I was aware that a menhir now stood near Silent&rsquo;s
lurking place. More appeared around the barren area.</p>

<p>Something hit me with the force of windwhale ballast dumped from
a hundred feet up. I went down. Waves of power, of thought, beat
upon me. I whimpered, tried to crawl toward the Lady. She extended
a hand, but would not cross that
boundary&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>Some of that power began to hint at comprehensibility. But it
was like being inside fifty minds at once, with them scattered
across the world. No. The Plain. And more than fifty minds. As it
became more melded, more meshed&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I was
touching the menhir minds.</p>

<p>That all faded. The sledge of power ceased hammering the anvil
that was me. I scrambled for the edge of the barren, though I knew
that line demarked no true safety. I reached the blanket, caught my
breath, finally turned to face the tree. Its leaves tinkled in
exasperation.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What happened?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Basically, he told me he&rsquo;s doing what he can, not
for our sake but for that of his creatures. That I should go to
Hell, leave him alone, quit aggravating him or find my ass in deep
shit. Oh, my.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I had looked back to see how Silent had taken my encounter.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I warned&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; She glanced
back, too.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think we maybe got trouble. Maybe they recognized
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Almost everyone from the Hole had appeared. They were lining up
across the trail. The menhirs were more numerous. Walking trees
were forming a circle with us at its center.</p>

<p>And we were unarmed, for Darling was there. We were inside the
null again.</p>

<p>She had on her white linen. She stepped past Elmo and the
Lieutenant and came toward me. Silent joined her. Behind her came
One-Eye, Goblin, Tracker, and Toadkiller Dog. Those four still had
the dust of the trail upon them.</p>

<p>They had been on the Plain for days. And I had been given no
word&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>You talk about your trapdoor on your gallows dropping
unexpectedly. For fifteen seconds I stood there with my mouth open.
Then I asked, &ldquo;What do we do?&rdquo; in a soft squeak.</p>

<p>She startled me by taking my hand. &ldquo;I bet and lost. I
don&rsquo;t know. They&rsquo;re your people. Bluff. Oh!&rdquo; Her
eyes narrowed. Her stare fixed, became intense. Then a thin smile
stretched her lips. &ldquo;I see.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Some answers. The shadow of what my husband is about. You
have been manipulated more than you know. He anticipated being
found out with his weather. Once he had your Raven, he decided to
bring your peasant girl to him&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Yes. I
think&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Come.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My old comrades did not appear hostile, only puzzled.</p>

<p>The circle continued to close.</p>

<p>The Lady caught my hand again, led me to the base of Old Father
Tree. She whispered, &ldquo;Let there be peace between us while you
observe, Ancient One. One comes whom you will remember of
old.&rdquo; And to me: &ldquo;There are many old shadows in the
world. Some reach back to the dawn. Not big enough, they seldom
draw attention like my husband or the Taken. Soulcatcher had
minions who antedated the tree. They were interred with her. I told
you I recognized the way those bodies were torn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I stood there in the bloody light of the fading sun, baffled all
to hell. She might as well have been speaking UchiTelle.</p>

<p>Darling, Silent, One-Eye, and Goblin came right to us. Elmo and
the Lieutenant halted within a rock&rsquo;s throw. But Tracker and
Toadkiller Dog sort of melted into the crowd.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What is going on?&rdquo; I signed at Darling, obviously
frightened.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That is what we want to find out. We have been getting
disjointed, nonsensical reports from the menhirs since Goblin,
One-Eye, and Tracker reached the Plain. On one hand, Goblin and
One-Eye confirm everything you told me&mdash;till you parted
ways.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I glanced at my two friends&mdash;and saw no friendship there. Their
eyes were cold and glassy. Like somebody else had moved in behind
them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Company,&rdquo; Elmo called, without shouting.</p>

<p>A pair of Taken, aboard boat-carpets, cruised some distance
away. They came no closer. The Lady&rsquo;s hand twitched. She
controlled herself otherwise. They remained far enough out not to
be recognizable.</p>

<p>&ldquo;More than one pair of hands is stirring this stew,&rdquo;
I said. &ldquo;Silent, get to the point. Right now you&rsquo;re
scaring the crap out of me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He signed, &ldquo;The rumor is strong in the empire that you
have sold out. That you have brought someone high-up here, to
assassinate Darling. Maybe even one of the new Taken.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I could not help grinning. The planters of rumors had not dared
tell the whole tale.</p>

<p>The grin convinced Silent. He knew me well. Which, I guess, was
why he was watching me.</p>

<p>Darling, too, relaxed. But neither One-Eye nor Goblin
softened.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s wrong with these guys, Silent? They look
like zombies.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They say you sold them out. That Tracker saw you. That
if&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Bullshit! Where the hell is Tracker? Get that big stupid
son-of-a-bitch out here and let him say that to my face!&rdquo;</p>

<p>The light was weakening. The fat tomato of a sun had slipped
behind the hills. Soon it would be dark. I felt a creepy tingle
against my back. Was the damned tree going to act up?</p>

<p>Once I thought of him, I sensed an intense interest upon Old
Father Tree&rsquo;s part. Also a sort of dreamy rage
coalescing&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>Suddenly, menhirs flickered around all over the place, even
across the creek where the brush was dense. A dog yelped. Silent
signed something to Elmo. I did not catch it because his back was
turned. Elmo trotted toward the turmoil.</p>

<p>The menhirs worked our way, forming a wall, herding
something&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Well! Tracker and Toadkiller
Dog. Tracker looked vacuously puzzled. The mutt kept trying to
scoot between the menhirs. They would not let him. Our people had
to stay light on their feet to keep from getting their toes
squashed.</p>

<p>The menhirs pushed Toadkiller Dog and Tracker into the barren
circle. The mongrel let out one long, despairing howl, tucked his
tail between his legs, and slunk into Tracker&rsquo;s shadow. They
stood about ten feet from Darling. </p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, Gods,&rdquo; the Lady murmured, and squeezed my hand
so hard I almost yelled.</p>

<p>The kernel of a change storm exploded in Old Father Tree&rsquo;s
tinkly hair.</p>

<p>It was huge; it was horrible; it was violent. It devoured us
all, with such ferocity we could do nothing but endure it. Shapes
shifted, ran, changed; yet those nearest Darling stayed exactly the
same.</p>

<p>Tracker screamed. Toadkiller Dog unleashed a howl that spread
terror like a cancer. And they changed the most, into the identical
vile and violent monsters I saw while westward bound.</p>

<p>The Lady shouted something lost in the rage of the storm. But I
caught its triumphal note. She did know those shapes.</p>

<p>I stared at her.</p>

<p>She had not changed.</p>

<p>That seemed impossible. This creature about whom I had been
silly for fifteen years could not be the real woman.</p>

<p>Toadkiller Dog flung himself into the jaws of the storm, hideous
fangs bared, trying to reach the Lady. He knew her, too. He meant
to finish her while she was helpless inside the null. Tracker
shambled after, just as puzzled as the Tracker that looked human
had been.</p>

<p>One of Father Tree&rsquo;s great branches whipped down. It
batted Toadkiller Dog the way a man might bat an attack bunny.
Three times Toadkiller Dog gave it the valiant try. Three times he
failed. The fourth time, what might have been the grandfather of
all lightning bolts met him squarely and hurled him all the way to
the creek, where he smouldered and twitched for a minute before
rising and howling away into the enemy desert.</p>

<p>At the same time Tracker-beast went for Darling. He gathered her
up and headed west. When Toadkiller Dog-beast went out of the game,
Tracker got all the attention.</p>

<p>Old Father Tree may not be a god, but when he talks he has the
voice. Coral reefs crumbled when he spoke. Everyone outside the
barren grabbed their ears and screamed. For us who were closer it
was less tormenting.</p>

<p>I do not know what he said. The language was none I knew, and it
sounded like none I had ever heard. But it got through to Tracker.
He put Darling down and came back, into the teeth of the storm, to
stand before the god while that great voice hammered him and
violent violet echoed round his misshapen bones. He bowed and did
homage to the tree, and then he did change.</p>

<p>The storm died as swiftly as it had began. Everyone collapsed.
Even the Lady. But unconsciousness did not come with collapse. By
the wan light remaining I saw the circling Taken decide their hour
had come. They fell back, gathered velocity, cut a ballistic chord
through the null, each loosing four of those thirty-foot spears
meant for shattering windwhales. And I sat on the hard ground
drooling, hand in hand with their target.</p>

<p>Through sheer will, I guess, the Lady managed to murmur,
&ldquo;They can read the future as well as I.&rdquo; Which made no
sense at the time. &ldquo;I overlooked that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Eight shafts arced down.</p>

<p>Father Tree responded.</p>

<p>Two carpets disintegrated beneath their riders.</p>

<p>The shafts exploded so high that none of their fiery charge
reached the ground.</p>

<p>The Taken did, though. They plunged in neat arcs into a dense
coral reef east of us. Then the sleepiness came. The last thing I
recall was that the glaze had left the three eyes of Goblin and
One-Eye.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide43.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide45.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

