<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide82.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide84.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">81</h2>

<p>For a while I just slept. In fact, I am convinced that I dreamed
normal dreams, though I cannot recall them now. Then, gradually, my
spirit slipped its moorings again, in a kind of tattered, fuzzy way
that might have indicated difficulty letting go. I felt no
resistance. But I was not trying to go anywhere, I was just
drifting.</p>

<p>I floated upward. It did take an effort of will but I faced
southward, trying to find the noose of stars that had gotten Mother
Gota exercised. Yes. There they were. But I had to climb a thousand
feet to see them all and even then they were not easily discerned.
They had dropped dramatically in a very short time.</p>

<p>In fact, when I reflected on it, I could not understand how they
might have risen high enough for me to see from the Shadowgate.</p>

<p>I did not let that trouble me, though. My attention was caught
by something on the plain of stone. For an instant I saw a ghost of
pale light out there, about where I glimpsed that lump of darkness
sometime before. Was there something out there?</p>

<p>I did not go look. It never occurred to me to try. In retrospect
I cannot understand why. How could the impulse not arise? How could
I not actively engage the choice of investigating or not
investigating? I do not know. I just sort of went hmm and continued
on about my normal ghosttime ratkilling.</p>

<p>I rejected impulses to search for Mogaba and Goblin. I can be
lazy even when all the work I have to do is think. Finding them
would take a lot of to-ing and fro-ing and calculating. And then I
might not accomplish anything. So I decided to spy on Soulcatcher
instead. By now she should be recovered enough to be grumbling and
scheming and maybe doing something interesting.</p>

<p>Or she might just be laying around sleeping.</p>

<p>Soulcatcher was just laying around sleeping. Surrounded by woods
where every branch and twig boasted a complement of crows. It
looked like every crow in the world had gathered around her
hideout.</p>

<p>It was unlikely they would starve for a while.</p>

<p>They had been living well. Already the earth beneath them was
buried under their droppings. Shadows drifted below, whimpering
because the crows would not come down to play.</p>

<p>Like a shadow myself I wormed into Catcher&rsquo;s cave. I
encountered the spells she had woven to keep the darkness at bay.
For a time those resisted me, too, but I was different enough to
find a way through.</p>

<p>Catcher was sleeping? How often did that happen?</p>

<p>The Daughter of Night was not asleep. And she was a sensitive
child. She felt me arrive. She sat up on her bed of damp pine
needles. &ldquo;Mother?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Catcher was a light sleeper. She sprang erect, alert, turning as
she sought danger. She wore the mask that had been one of her
trademarks in the old days. Mostly she had done without it lately,
but seldom did I see her in public. And never in the flesh.</p>

<p>She resembled Lady though she had even finer features and a more
sensual air. Croaker claims he resisted her seductions. Publicly I
believe him. But I do not know how he managed. I would have trouble
despite my devotion to Sarie.</p>

<p>Maybe it was just his age.</p>

<p>Catcher&rsquo;s hideout was illuminated by a lamp that hung from
the ceiling of the cave. It was a cousin of our shadow-repellent
candles. It was not bright but its light left no place for any
little death to hide.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What did you say?&rdquo; The voice Catcher used was that
of a man whose throat had been smashed and could speak in only a
hoarse whisper. Except this whisper was heavy with malice, a voice
in keeping with the old, dread repute of the Ten Who Were Taken. It
contained the compassion of a serpent, the sympathy of a
spider.</p>

<p>The Daughter of Night did not react. From her response
Soulcatcher might not have been there at all.</p>

<p>Catcher giggled like a girl sharing whispers about boys.
&ldquo;Defiance is pointless. Stubbornness is meaningless. There is
no one to help you.&rdquo; That was the voice of despair. It
rasped, too, but it was the last speech of an old man dying of
cancer. &ldquo;You are mine to do with as I please. It pleases me
that you tell me what you just said.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The child raised her eyes. There was no love for her auntie
there.</p>

<p>Soulcatcher laughed.</p>

<p>She was a cruel thing at times.</p>

<p>She made a gesture. The child shrieked, thrashed in agony. She
fought her cries, not wanting to give her tormenter the pleasure,
but her body could not be controlled by her will, powerful as that
was.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You think your mother was here? You have no mother,
neither my sister nor Kina.&rdquo; This voice was that of an
accountant reporting the week&rsquo;s profits. &ldquo;I am your
mother now. I am your goddess. I am your only reason for
living.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I moved my viewpoint slightly so I could see them better. Maybe
my movement disturbed the lamp&rsquo;s flame. Maybe a breath of
wind crept in from outside. Whatever, Catcher shut up and gave a
lot more attention to her surroundings.</p>

<p>After a minute during which she just turned slowly, in silence,
she mused, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s something here. And you sensed it
right away.&rdquo; The girlish giggle returned. &ldquo;Right away.
And you thought it might be Kina. But it isn&rsquo;t, is
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Soulcatcher made a sudden gesture with her gloved left hand,
fingers dancing too fast to follow. The brat collapsed,
unconscious. Catcher settled with her back to the cave wall,
dragged a pair of ragged leather sacks closer. I could smell
nothing out there but I bet she reeked as bad as Howler. She was
vain enough to guarantee herself incredible beauty and sensuality
but not vain enough to waste much time on personal hygiene.</p>

<p>Maybe the smell would help me push her away if memories of Sahra
did not do the trick.</p>

<p>She almost caught me. It did not look like she was doing
anything but stirring through her trash. And my thoughts distracted
me. I saved myself because she was used to living alone, or with
crows. She reasoned aloud, &ldquo;If it was the freak goddess
I&rsquo;d smell her. And she&rsquo;d try to do something stupid.
But somebody else has been prowling around, too. Let&rsquo;s find
out who. Maybe it&rsquo;s my beloved sister.&rdquo; The voice that
spoke those last few words was powerfully vicious.</p>

<p>Her hands sprang out of one leather sack, sudden as a
snake&rsquo;s strike, but I was on the move, cleverly not toward
the entrance. Her all but invisible net of black thread whooshed
past two feet away. As soon as it fell I headed toward the exit. I
did not know if she could catch me for real but I had no urge to
find out.</p>

<p>Soulcatcher laughed. This was no giggle. This was fullblown,
malicious adult amusement. &ldquo;Whatever you are, I can&rsquo;t
fool you. Can I?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She sure could. That was why I was getting out while I could.
Like all the Ten must have been, she was way more scary than would
seem at first exposure. The madness leaked through only slowly.</p>

<p>Catcher made a series of gestures employing every finger on each
hand. She spoke in one of those tongues sorcerers favor, this one
probably that of her childhood. I felt a truly ugly presence
approaching as I was about to slip my ghostly nose into the crack
that would take me outside.</p>

<p>A shadow wriggle in. It cringed. It shuddered. It responded to
Catcher&rsquo;s will. I did not hang around to find out what she
wanted it to do.</p>

<p>It was enough to know that Soulcatcher had discovered a way to
manipulate shadows. Which meant that with the last Shadowmaster
barely finished kicking, a new queen of the darkness was about to
rise.</p>

<p>She is the darkness.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide82.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide84.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

