<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Shadow Games</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="games.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide12.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide14.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">Chapter Twelve: THE SHAGGY HILLS</h2>

<p>To reach One-Eye&rsquo;s jungle we had to pass through several
miles of woods, then climb over a range of decidedly odd hills. The
hills were very round, very steep, and completely treeless, though
not especially high. They were covered with a short brown grass
that caught fire easily, so that many bore black scars. From a
distance they looked like a herd of giant, tawny, humped beasts
sleeping.</p>

<p>I was in a state of high nerves. That sleeping-beast image
haunted me. I kept half expecting those hills to waken and shrug us
off. I caught up with One-Eye. &ldquo;Is there something weird
about these hills that you accidentally forgot to tell me about on
purpose?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He gave me a funny look. &ldquo;No. Though the ignorant believe
them to be burial mounds from a time when giants walked the earth.
But they aren&rsquo;t. They&rsquo;re just hills. All dirt and rock
inside.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then why do they make me feel funny?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He glanced back the way we had come, puzzled. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
not the hills, Croaker. It&rsquo;s something back there. I feel it,
too. Like we just dodged an arrow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I did not ask him what it was. He would have told me if he had
known.</p>

<p>As the day wore on I realized the others were as jumpy as I
was.</p>

<p>Worrying about it did as much good as worrying ever does.</p>

<p>Next morning we ran into two wizened little men of
One-Eye&rsquo;s race. They both looked a hundred years old. One of
them kept hacking and coughing like he was about to croak. Goblin
cackled. &ldquo;Must be old Lizard Lips&rsquo;s illegitimate
grandchildren.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a resemblance. I suppose that was to be expected. We
were just accustomed to One-Eye being unique.</p>

<p>One-Eye scowled at Goblin. &ldquo;Keep it up, Barf Bag.
You&rsquo;ll be grocery shopping with the turtles.&rdquo;</p>

<p>What the hell did that mean? Some kind of obscure shop talk? But
Goblin was as croggled as the rest of us.</p>

<p>Grinning, One-Eye resumed gabbling with his relatives.</p>

<p>Lady said, &ldquo;I presume these are the guides the monks sent
for?&rdquo;</p>

<p>They had done us that favor on learning our intentions. We would
need guides. We were near the end of any road we could call
familiar. Once past One-Eye&rsquo;s jungle we would need somebody
to translate for One-Eye, too.</p>

<p>Goblin let out a sudden aggrieved squawk.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s your problem?&rdquo; I demanded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s feeding them a pack of lies!&rdquo;</p>

<p>So what was new about that? &ldquo;How do you know? You
don&rsquo;t talk that lingo.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have to. I&rsquo;ve known him since before
your dad was whelped. Look at him. He&rsquo;s doing his classic
mighty-sorcerer-from-a-faraway-land act. In about twenty seconds
he&rsquo;s going to&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; A wicked grin
spread his mouth around his face. He muttered something under his
breath.</p>

<p>One-Eye raised a hand. A ball of light formed within his curled
fingers.</p>

<p>There was a pop like that of a cork coming out of a wine
bottle.</p>

<p>One-Eye held a hand full of swamp bottom. It oozed between his
fingers and ran down his arm. He lowered his hand and stared in
disbelief.</p>

<p>He let out a shriek and whirled.</p>

<p>Innocent Goblin was faking a conversation with Murgen. But
Murgen was not up to the deceit. His shifty eyes gave Goblin
away.</p>

<p>One-Eye puffed up like a toady frog, ready to explode. Then a
miracle occurred. He invented self-restraint. A nasty little smile
pranced across his lips and he turned back to the guides.</p>

<p>That was the second time in my experience that he had controlled
himself when provoked. But, then, it was one of those rare times
when Goblin had initiated the process of provocation. I told Otto,
&ldquo;This could get interesting.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otto grunted an affirmative. He was not thrilled.</p>

<p>Of One-Eye, I asked, &ldquo;Have you finished telling them
you&rsquo;re the necromancer Voice of the North Wind come to ease
the pain in their hearts brought on by worry about their
wealth?&rdquo; He&rsquo;d actually tried to sell that once, to a
tribe of savages coincidentally in possession of an eye-popping
cache of emeralds. He found out the hard way that primitive does
not mean stupid. They were fixing to burn him at the stake when
Goblin decided to bail him out. Against his better judgment, he
always insisted afterward.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It ain&rsquo;t like that this time, Croaker. I
wouldn&rsquo;t do it to my own people.&rdquo;</p>

<p>One-Eye does not have an ounce of shame. Nor even the sense not
to lie to those who know him well. Of course he would do it to his
own people. He would do it to anybody if he thought he could get
away with it. And he has so little trouble conning himself on
that.</p>

<p>&ldquo;See that you don&rsquo;t. We&rsquo;re too few and too far
from safety to let you indulge yourself in your usual line of
shit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I got enough menace into my voice to make him gulp.</p>

<p>His tone was markedly different when he resumed gobbling at our
prospective guides.</p>

<p>Even so, I decided I would pick up a smatter of the language.
Just to keep an ear on him. His often misplaced self-confidence has
a way of asserting itself at the most unpropitious moments.</p>

<p>Straight for a time, One-Eye negotiated a deal that pleased
everyone. We had ourselves guides for the passage through the
jungle and intermediary interpreters for the land that lay
beyond.</p>

<p>Relying on his usual moronic sense of humor, Goblin dubbed them
Baldo and Wheezer, for reasons that were self-evident To my
embarrassment, the names stuck. Those two old boys probably
deserved better. But then again&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>We wended our way belween the shaggy, hump-backed hills the rest
of that day, and as darkness approached we topped the cleavage
between the pair that flanked the summit of our passage. From there
we could see the sunset, reflecting bloody wounds of a broad river,
and the rich green of the jungle beyond. Behind us lay the tawny
humps, and beyond them a hazy sprawl of indigo.</p>

<p>My mood was reflective, flat, almost down. It seemed we might
have reached a watershed in more than a geographical sense.</p>

<p>Much later, unable to sleep for thoughts that questioned what I
was doing here in an alien land, thoughts that replied that I had
nothing else to do and nowhere else to go, I left my bedroll and
the remaining warmth of our campfire. I headed for one of the
flanking hills, moved by some vague notion of going up where I
could get a better view of the stars.</p>

<p>Wheezer, who had the watch, gave me a gap-toothed leer before
spitting a wad of brown juice into the coals. I heard him start
wheezing before I was halfway up the hill.</p>

<p>A lunger I got, yet.</p>

<br>

<p>The moon threatened to rise soon. It would be fat and bright. I
picked me a spot and stood looking at the horizon, waiting for that
fat orange globe to roll over the lip of the world. The faintest of
cool, moist breezes stirred my hair. It was so damned peaceful it
hurt.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You couldn&rsquo;t sleep, either?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I jerked around.</p>

<p>She was a dark glob on the hillside just ten feet away. If I had
noted her at all, it was as a rock. I stepped closer. She was
seated, her arms wrapped around her knees. Her gaze was fixed on
the north.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sit down.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sat. &ldquo;What are you looking at so hard?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Reaper. The Archer. Vargo&rsquo;s Ship.&rdquo; And
yesterdays, no doubt.</p>

<p>Those were constellations. I considered them, too. They were
very low, seen from here. This time of year they would be quite
high in the sky up north. What she meant began to sink in.</p>

<p>We had come a far piece, indeed. With many a mile to go. She
said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s intimidating when you think about it.
It&rsquo;s a lot of walking.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was.</p>

<p>The moon clambered over the horizon, monstrous in size and
almost red. She whispered &ldquo;Wow!&rdquo; and slipped her hand
into mine. She was shivering, so after a minute I slid over and put
my arm around her. She leaned her head against my shoulder.</p>

<p>That old moon was working its magic. That sucker can do it to
anybody.</p>

<p>Now I knew what made Wheezer grin.</p>

<p>The moment seemed right. I turned my head-and her lips were
rising to meet mine. When they touched mine I forgot who and what
she had been. Her arms surrounded me, pulled me
down.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>She shivered in my grasp like a captive mouse. &ldquo;What is
it?&rdquo; I whispered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shh,&rdquo; she said. And that was the best thing she
could have said. But she could not leave it there. She had to add,
&ldquo;I never&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I never did
this&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Well, shit. She sure knew how to distract a man, and put a
thousand reservations into his mind.</p>

<p>That moon climbed the sky. We began to relax with each other.
Somehow, there were fewer rags separating us.</p>

<p>She stiffened. The mist went out of her eyes. She lifted her
head and stared past me, face slack.</p>

<p>If one of those clowns had sneaked up to watch I was going to
break his kneecaps. I turned.</p>

<p>We did not have company. She was watching the flash of a distant
storm. &ldquo;Heat lightning,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You think so? It doesn&rsquo;t seem much farther off than
the Temple. And we never saw a storm the whole time we were
crossing that country.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jagged lightning bolts ripped down like a fall of javelins.</p>

<p>That feeling I had discussed with One-Eye redoubled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know, Croaker.&rdquo; She began gathering
her clothing. &ldquo;The pattern seems familiar.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I followed her lead, relieved. I am not sure I would have been
able to finish what we started. I was distracted now.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Another time will be better, I think,&rdquo; she said,
still staring at that lightning. &ldquo;That is too
distracting.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We returned to camp to find everyone awake yet totally
uninterested in the fact that we had been away together. The view
was not as good from below, but flashes could be seen. They did not
let up.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s sorcery out there, Croaker,&rdquo; One-Eye
said.</p>

<p>Goblin nodded. &ldquo;The heavy stuff. You can feel the
screaming edges of it from here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How far away?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;About two days. Close to that place we
stopped.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shivered. &ldquo;Can you tell what it&rsquo;s
about?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Goblin said nothing. One-Eye shook his head. &ldquo;All I can
tell you is I&rsquo;m glad I&rsquo;m here and not there.&rdquo; I
agreed, even in my ignorance of what was happening.</p>

<p>Murgen blanched. He pointed over the book he was studying, which
he held out like a protective fetish. &ldquo;Did you see
that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I was looking at Lady and brooding about my luck. The others
could sweat the little stuff, like some bloody sorcerers&rsquo;
duel fifty miles away. I had troubles of my own.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; I grumbled, knowing he wanted a
response.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It looked like a giant bird. I mean, like one with a
twenty-mile wingspan. That you could see through.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I looked up. Goblin nodded. He had seen it, too. I looked to the
north. The lightning ended, but some pretty fierce fires had to be
burning up there. &ldquo;One-Eye. Your new buddies there got any
idea what&rsquo;s going on?&rdquo;</p>

<p>The little black man shook his head. He had the brim of his hat
pulled forward, cutting his line of sight. That business up
there&mdash;whatever it was&mdash;had him rattled. By his own admission he is
the greatest wizard ever produced by his part of the world. With
the possible exception of his dead brother, Tom-Tom. Whatever that
was out there, it was alien. It did not belong.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Times change,&rdquo; I suggested.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not around here, they don&rsquo;t. And if they did, these
guys would know about it.&rdquo; Wheezer nodded vigorous agreement
although he could not have understood a word. He hawked and spat a
brown glob into the fire.</p>

<p>I had a feeling I was going to have as much fun with him as I
did with One-Eye. &ldquo;What is that crap he&rsquo;s all the time
chewing? It&rsquo;s disgusting.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Qat,&rdquo; One-Eye said. &ldquo;A mild narcotic.
Doesn&rsquo;t do his lungs any good, but when he&rsquo;s chewing it
he doesn&rsquo;t care how much they hurt him.&rdquo; He said it
lightly, but he meant it.</p>

<p>I nodded uncomfortably, looked away. &ldquo;Quieting down up
there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>No one had anything to say to that.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;re all awake,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;So get
packing. I want to move out as soon as we can see to
walk.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I did not get a bit of argument. Wheezer nodded and spat. Goblin
grunted and started getting his things together. The others
followed his example, Murgen putting the book away with a care that
I approved. The boy might make an Annalist after all. We all kept
sneaking looks at the north when we thought our uneasiness would go
unnoticed.</p>

<p>When I was not looking that way, or tormenting myself with
glances at Lady, I tried to get an estimate of the reactions of the
newer men. We had encountered no sorcery directly yet, but the
Company has a way of stumbling into its path. They seemed no more
uncomfortable than the old hands.</p>

<p>Glances at Lady. I wondered if what seemed inevitable on the one
hand and foredoomed on the other would ever cease crackling between
us. So long as it did it would distort everything else in our
relationship. Hell. I liked her fine as a friend.</p>

<p>There is nothing so unreasonable and irrational and blind&mdash;and
just plain silly-looking&mdash;as a man who works himself into an
obsessive passion.</p>

<p>Women do not look as foolish. They are expected to be weak. But
they are also expected to become savage bitches when they are
frustrated.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide12.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide14.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

