<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Water Sleeps</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="water.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide31.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide33.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">31</h2>

<p class="noindent"><span class="dropcap">I</span> said,
&ldquo;Better get Uncle Doj before we go any farther with this,
Tobo.&rdquo; I spotted Kendo Cutter and Runmust. &ldquo;You guys
finally back? How did it go?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perfect. Just like you planned it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Sahra asked, &ldquo;You have my present?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re lugging him in now. He&rsquo;s still out
cold.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Drop him right here where I can chat with him when he
comes around.&rdquo; Sahra had a wicked gleam in her eye.</p>

<p>I chuckled. &ldquo;Soulcatcher thinks we&rsquo;re following some
grand, carefully orchestrated master plan exquisitely fashioned by
a great strategic mastermind. If she knew we were just stumbling
around in the dark hoping we stay lucky until we can open the way
for the Captured&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>One-Eye barked, &ldquo;You telling me you masterminds
don&rsquo;t got a next step ready to go, Little Girl?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We have several.&rdquo; I did. &ldquo;And I&rsquo;m sure
the next one hasn&rsquo;t ever occurred to Soulcatcher as being
within the realm of possibility. I&rsquo;m going to bring Master
Santaraksita home for supper and give him a chance to sign up for
the adventure of a lifetime.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Heh-heh! I knew it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Uncle Doj joined us. He was seriously peeved about the way he
had been treated lately.</p>

<p>I told him, &ldquo;One of our friends just reported a
conversation between The Thousand Voices and the Radisha. The
process of reasoning is beyond my imagination but The Thousand
Voices has decided that all her troubles recently are the fault of
a Master of the Path of the Sword who should&rsquo;ve been killed a
long time ago. When last seen, she was off to visit the folks at
the Vinh Gao Ghang temple to ask about the man. You may be familiar
with that temple.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Doj lost color. His sword hand trembled for an instant. His
right eyelid twitched. He turned toward Sahra.</p>

<p>Sahra told him, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s true. What can she learn
there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Speak the tongue of The People.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The Master of the Path of the Sword accepted what he could not
control. You would have to say he was somewhat less than gracious
about it, though, if you wanted to report the whole truth.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;You still have a book we want. And you could tell
us a great deal that we could use, I think.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He was a stubborn old man. He was determined not to let me
stampede him into anything.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;The Thousand Voices has sent for Mogaba. She
means to have the army come dig us out. If I could, I&rsquo;d like
to get out of Taglios before she starts. But we have a lot to do
and a lot to find out before we can go. Your help would be
invaluable. As I keep reminding you, you have people under that
plain, too&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Huh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? Sleepy?&rdquo; Sahra said. &ldquo;Goblin! See
what&rsquo;s the matter with her!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m all right. I&rsquo;m fine. I just had what you
call an epiphany, I think. Listen. All the evidence indicates that
Soulcatcher thinks the Captured are dead. Which would mean that she
believes Longshadow is dead. <em>We</em> know he&rsquo;s not, which is why
we&rsquo;re not worried right now. But if she doesn&rsquo;t know,
why isn&rsquo;t she amazed that the world hasn&rsquo;t been overrun
by shadows?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I got a lot of blank looks for my trouble, even from the
wizards.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;Look, what it means is, it doesn&rsquo;t matter
if Longshadow is dead or alive after all. As long as he stays
inside the Shadowgate. There isn&rsquo;t a doomsday sword hanging
over the world, certain to fall when the madman croaks. Somebody
besides the cleverest wizards will survive.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The less clever wizards caught on then. They brightened up
dramatically. Not that either had ever cared much what became of
the world after they staggered out of it.</p>

<p>What to do about the Shadowmaster had never been a significant
issue to us because there were always more immediate obstacles to
overcome before he could become a major concern.</p>

<p>Sahra said as much. &ldquo;If we can&rsquo;t open the way,
there&rsquo;s no point in worrying about how we can keep it closed
to those not in our favor.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wonder how the Shadowmasters did it? Brute force? The
Black Company was still in the far north and the Lance of Passion
was up there with them.&rdquo; I stared at Uncle Doj. Others began
to do so, too. I wondered aloud, &ldquo;Could it be that the great
shame of the Nyueng Bao isn&rsquo;t nearly as ancient as I thought?
Could it be that it just goes back a couple of generations? To
about the time that the Shadowmasters appeared, practically
manifesting themselves overnight?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Uncle Doj closed his eyes. They stayed that way for a while.
When the old priest opened them again, he glared at me. &ldquo;Come
walking with me, Stone Soldier.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Chandra Gokhale, Inspector-General of the Records and favorer of
very young girls, chose that moment to groan. I told Doj,
&ldquo;Indulge me for a few minutes, Uncle. I have a guest to
entertain. I promise not to take too long.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Goblin knelt beside the minister, patted his face gently, helped
Gokhale to a sitting position. The Inspector-General began to puff
up for a bluster storm. As his mouth opened, I leaned down to
whisper, &ldquo;Water sleeps.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Gokhale&rsquo;s head jerked around. In a moment he recalled
where he had seen me before. Goblin told him, &ldquo;All their days
are numbered, buddy. And it looks like some of you got a few less
days than some others do.&rdquo; Gokhale recognized him, too,
though he was supposed to be dead. And when he remembered where he
had seen Sahra before, he began to tremble.</p>

<p>Sahra asked, &ldquo;Would you recall abusing Minh Subredil on
several occasions? Subredil certainly remembers. What I think
we&rsquo;ll do to requite that is to return it fivefold. The
brothers will install you in a tiger cage in a moment. You&rsquo;ll
be well treated otherwise. And in a few days maybe we&rsquo;ll
bring in the Purohita to keep you company.&rdquo; She chuckled so
wickedly I felt a chill. &ldquo;For all the rest of their days,
calling the Heaven and the Earth and the Day and the Night, like
brothers, Chandra Gokhale and Arjuna Drupada.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Part of that was some Nyueng Bao formula I didn&rsquo;t
understand. But I got the point. And so did Gokhale. He would be
caged all the rest of his days with the man he most loathed.</p>

<p>Sahra chuckled again.</p>

<p>She made me nervous when she got like that.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide31.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide33.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

