<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Consider Phlebas</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="phlebas.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide18.html">previous</a> | <a
href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> | <a href=
"slide20.html">next</a></small></div>

<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">13. The Command System: Terminus</h2>

<hr>
<p>'One can read too much into one's own
circumstances.&nbsp;&nbsp;I am reminded of one race who set
themselves against us&#151;oh, long ago now, before I was even
thought of.&nbsp;&nbsp;Their conceit was that the galaxy belonged
to them, and they justified this heresy by a blasphemous belief
concerning design.&nbsp;&nbsp;They were aquatic, their brain and
major organs housed in a large central pod from which several large
arms or tentacles protruded.&nbsp;&nbsp;These tentacles were thick
at the body, thin at the tips and lined with
suckers.&nbsp;&nbsp;Their water god was supposed to have made the
galaxy in their image.</p>

<p>'You see?&nbsp;&nbsp;They thought that because they bore a rough
physical resemblance to the great lens that is the home of all of
us&#151;even taking the analogy as far as comparing their tentacle
suckers to globular clusters&#151;it therefore belonged to
them.&nbsp;&nbsp;For all the idiocy of this heathen belief, they
had prospered and were powerful: quite respectable adversaries, in
fact.'</p>

<p>'Hmm,' Aviger said.&nbsp;&nbsp;Without looking up, he asked,
'What were they called?'</p>

<p>'Hmm,' Xoxarle rumbled.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Their name...' The Idiran
pondered.&nbsp;&nbsp;'... I believe they were called the... the
Fanch.'</p>

<p>'Never heard of them,' Aviger said.</p>

<p>'No, you wouldn't have,' Xoxarle purred.&nbsp;&nbsp;'We
annihilated them.'</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Yalson saw Horza staring at something on the floor near the
doors leading back to the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;She kept watching
Balveda, but said, 'What have you found?'</p>

<p>Horza shook his head, reached to pick something from the floor,
then stopped.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I think it's an insect,' he said
incredulously.</p>

<p>'Wow,' Yalson said, unimpressed.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda moved over
to have a look, Yalson's gun still trained on her.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza
shook his head, watching the insect crawl over the tunnel
floor.</p>

<p>'What the hell's that doing down here?' he
said.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson frowned when he said that, worried at a
note of near panic in the man's voice.</p>

<p>'Probably brought it down ourselves,' Balveda said,
rising.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Hitched a ride on the pallet, or somebody's
suit, I'll bet.'</p>

<p>Horza brought his fist down on the tiny creature, squashing it,
grinding it into the dark rock.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda looked
surprised.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson's frown deepened.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza
stared at the mark left on the tunnel floor, wiped his glove, then
looked up, apologetic.</p>

<p>'Sorry,' he told Balveda, as though embarrassed.&nbsp;&nbsp;'...
Couldn't help thinking about that fly in <em>The Ends of
Invention</em>... Turned out to be one of your pets, remember?' He
got up and walked quickly into the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda
nodded, looking down at the small stain on the floor.</p>

<p>'Well,' she said, arching one eyebrow, 'that was one way of
proving its innocence.'</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Xoxarle watched the male and the two females come back into the
station.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Nothing, little one?' he asked.</p>

<p>'Lots of things, Section Leader,' Horza replied, going up to
Xoxarle and checking the wires holding him.</p>

<p>Xoxarle grunted.&nbsp;&nbsp;'They're still somewhat tight,
ally.'</p>

<p>'What a shame,' Horza said.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Try breathing out.'</p>

<p>'Ha!' Xoxarle laughed and thought the man might have
guessed.&nbsp;&nbsp;But the human turned away and said to the old
man who had been guarding him:</p>

<p>'Aviger, we're going onto the train.&nbsp;&nbsp;Keep our friend
company; try not to fall asleep.'</p>

<p>'Fat chance, with him gibbering all the time,' the old man
grumbled.</p>

<p>The other three humans entered the train.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle
went on talking.</p>

<p>In one section of the train there were lit map screens which
showed how Schar's World had looked at the time the Command System
had been built, the cities and the states shown on the continents,
the targets on one state on one continent, the missile grounds, air
bases and naval ports belonging to the System's designers shown on
another state, on another continent.</p>

<p>Two small icecaps were shown, but the rest of the planet was
steppe, savannah, desert, forest and jungle.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda
wanted to stay and look at the maps, but Horza pulled her away and
through another door, going forward to the nose of the
train.&nbsp;&nbsp;He switched off the lights behind the map screens
as he went, and the bright surface of blue oceans, green, yellow,
brown and orange land, blue rivers and red cities and communication
lines faded slowly into grey darkness.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p><em>Oh-oh.</em></p>

<p><em>There are more on the train.&nbsp;&nbsp;Three, I
think.&nbsp;&nbsp;Walking from the rear.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now
what</em>?</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Xoxarle breathed in, breathed out.&nbsp;&nbsp;He flexed his
muscles, and the wires slipped over his keratin
plates.&nbsp;&nbsp;He stopped, when the old man wandered over to
look at him.</p>

<p>'You are Aviger, aren't you?'</p>

<p>'That's what they call me,' the old man said.&nbsp;&nbsp;He
stood looking at the Idiran, gazing from Xoxarle's three feet with
their three slab toes and round ankle collars, over his
padded-looking knees, the massive girdle of pelvic plates and the
flat chest, up to the section leader's great saddle-head, the broad
face tipped and looking down at the human beneath.</p>

<p>'Frightened I'll escape?' Xoxarle rumbled.</p>

<p>Aviger shrugged and gripped his gun a little
tighter.&nbsp;&nbsp;'What do I care?' he said.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I'm a
prisoner, too.&nbsp;&nbsp;That madman's got us all trapped down
here.&nbsp;&nbsp;I just want to go back.&nbsp;&nbsp;This isn't my
war.'</p>

<p>'A very sensible attitude,' Xoxarle said.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I wish
more humans would realise what is and what is not
theirs.&nbsp;&nbsp;Especially regarding wars.'</p>

<p>'Huh, I don't suppose your lot are any better.'</p>

<p>'Let us say different, then.'</p>

<p>'Say what you like.' Aviger looked over the Idiran's body again,
addressing Xoxarle's chest.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I just wish everybody would
mind their own business.&nbsp;&nbsp;I see no change, though; it'll
all end in tears.'</p>

<p>'I don't think you really belong here, Aviger.' Xoxarle nodded
wisely, slowly.</p>

<p>Aviger shrugged, and did not raise his eyes.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I don't
think any of us do.'</p>

<p>'The brave belong where they decide.' Some harshness entered the
Idiran's voice.</p>

<p>Aviger looked at the broad, dark face above
him.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Well, you would say that, wouldn't you?' He turned
away and walked back towards the pallet.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle
watched, and vibrated his chest quickly, tensing his muscles, then
releasing.&nbsp;&nbsp;The wires on him slipped a little
further.&nbsp;&nbsp;Behind his back, he felt the bonds around one
wrist slacken fractionally.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The train gathered speed.&nbsp;&nbsp;The controls and screens
looked dim to him, so he watched the lights on the tunnel walls
outside.&nbsp;&nbsp;They had slid by gently at first, passing the
side windows of the broad control deck more slowly than the quiet
tide of his breathing.</p>

<p>Now there were two or three lights running by for each time he
breathed.&nbsp;&nbsp;The train was pushing him gently in the back,
drawing him towards the rear of the seat and anchoring him
there.&nbsp;&nbsp;Blood&#151;a little of it, not much&#151;had
dried under him, sticking him there.&nbsp;&nbsp;His course, he
felt, was set.&nbsp;&nbsp;There was only one thing left to
do.&nbsp;&nbsp;He searched the console, cursing the darkness
gathering behind his eye.</p>

<p>Before he found the circuit breaker on the collision brake, he
found the lights.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was like a little present from God;
the tunnel ahead flashed with bright reflections as the train's
nose headlights clicked on.&nbsp;&nbsp;The double set of rails
glinted, and in the distance he could see more shadows and
reflections in the tunnel walls, where access tubes slanted in from
the foot tunnels, and blast doors ribbed the black rock walls.</p>

<p>His sight was still going, but he felt a little better for being
able to see outside.&nbsp;&nbsp;At first he worried, in a distant,
theoretical way, that the lights might give too much warning,
should he be lucky enough to catch the humans still in the
station.&nbsp;&nbsp;But it made little difference.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
air pushed in front of the train would warn them soon
enough.&nbsp;&nbsp;He raised a panel near the power-control lever
and peered at it.</p>

<p>His head was light; he felt very cold.&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked at
the circuit breaker and then bent down, jamming himself between the
rear of the seat&#151;cracking the blood seal beneath him and
starting to bleed again&#151;and the edge of the
console.&nbsp;&nbsp;He shoved his face against the edge of the
power-control lever, then took his hand away and gripped the
collision brake fail-safe.&nbsp;&nbsp;He moved his hand so that it
would not slip out, then just lay there.</p>

<p>His one eye was high enough off the console to see the tunnel
ahead.&nbsp;&nbsp;The lights were coming faster now.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
train rocked gently, lulling him.&nbsp;&nbsp;The roaring was fading
from his ears, like the sight dimming, like the station behind
slipping away and vanishing, like the seemingly steady,
slow-quickening stream of lights flowing by on either side.</p>

<p>He could not estimate how far he had to go.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had
started it off; he had done his best.&nbsp;&nbsp;No
more&#151;finally&#151;could be asked of him.</p>

<p>He closed his eye, just to rest.</p>

<p>The train rocked him.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'It's great,' Wubslin grinned when Horza, Yalson and Balveda
walked onto the control deck.&nbsp;&nbsp;'It's all ready to
roll.&nbsp;&nbsp;All systems go!'</p>

<p>'Well, don't wet your pants,' Yalson told him, watching Balveda
sit down in a seat, then sitting in another herself.&nbsp;&nbsp;'We
might have to use the transit tubes to get around.'</p>

<p>Horza pressed a few buttons, watching the readouts on the
train's systems.&nbsp;&nbsp;It all looked as Wubslin had said:
ready to go.</p>

<p>'Where's that damn drone?' Horza said to Yalson.</p>

<p>'Drone?&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp?' Yalson said into her helmet
mike.</p>

<p>'What is it now?' Unaha-Closp said.</p>

<p>'Where are you?'</p>

<p>'I'm taking a good look through this antiquated collection of
rolling stock.&nbsp;&nbsp;I do believe these trains may actually be
older than your ship.'</p>

<p>'Tell it to get back here,' Horza said.&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked at
Wubslin.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Did you check this whole train?'</p>

<p>Yalson ordered the drone back as Wubslin nodded and said, 'All
of it except the reactor car; couldn't get into bits of
it.&nbsp;&nbsp;Which are the door controls?'</p>

<p>Horza looked around for a moment, recalling the layout of the
train controls.&nbsp;&nbsp;'That lot.' He pointed at one of the
banks of buttons and light panels to one side of
Wubslin.&nbsp;&nbsp;The engineer studied them.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Ordered back.&nbsp;&nbsp;Told to return.&nbsp;&nbsp;Like it was
a slave, one of the Idirans' medjel; as though it was a
machine.&nbsp;&nbsp;Let them wait a little.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp had also found the map screens, in the train just
down the tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;It floated in the air in front of the
coloured expanses of back-lit plastic.&nbsp;&nbsp;It used its
manipulating fields to work the controls, turning on small sets of
lights which indicated the targets on both sides, the major cities
and military installations.</p>

<p>All of it dust now, all of their precious humanoid civilisation
ground to junk under glaciers or weathered away by wind and spray
and rain and frozen in ice&#151;all of it.&nbsp;&nbsp;Only this
pathetic maze-tomb left.</p>

<p>So much for their humanity, or whatever they chose to call it,
thought Unaha-Closp.&nbsp;&nbsp;Only their machines
remained.&nbsp;&nbsp;But would any of the others
learn?&nbsp;&nbsp;Would they see this for what it was, this frozen
rock-ball?&nbsp;&nbsp;Would they, indeed!</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp left the screens glowing, and floated out of the
train, back through the tunnel towards the station
itself.&nbsp;&nbsp;The tunnels were bright now, but no warmer, and
to Unaha-Closp it seemed as though there was a sort of revealed
heartlessness about the harsh yellow-white light which streamed
from ceilings and walls; it was operating-theatre light,
dissection-table light.</p>

<p>The machine floated through the tunnels, thinking that the
cathedral of darkness had become a glazed arena, a crucible.</p>

<p>Xoxarle was on the platform, still trussed against the access
ramp girders.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp didn't like the way the Idiran
looked at it when it appeared from the tunnels; it was almost
impossible to read the creature's expression, if he could be said
to have one, but there was something about Xoxarle that Unaha-Closp
didn't like.&nbsp;&nbsp;It got the impression the Idiran had just
stopped moving, or doing something he didn't want to be seen
doing.</p>

<p>From the tunnel mouth, the drone saw Aviger look up from the
pallet where he was sitting, then look away again, without even
bothering to wave.</p>

<p>The Changer and the two females were in the train control area
with the engineer Wubslin.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp saw them, and
went forward to the access ramps and the nearest
door.&nbsp;&nbsp;As it got there it paused.&nbsp;&nbsp;Air moved
gently; hardly anything, but it was there; it could feel
it.&nbsp;&nbsp;Obviously with the power on, some automatic systems
were circulating more fresh air from the surface or through
atmospheric scrubbing units.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp went into the train.</p>

<p>'Unpleasant little machine, that,' Xoxarle said to
Aviger.&nbsp;&nbsp;The old man nodded vaguely.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle
had noticed that the man looked at him less when he was speaking to
him.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was as though the sound of his voice reassured
the human that he was still tied there, safe and sound, not
moving.&nbsp;&nbsp;On the other hand, talking&#151;moving his head
to look at the human, making the occasional shrugging motion,
laughing a little&#151;gave him excuses to move and so to slip the
wires a little further.&nbsp;&nbsp;So he talked; with luck the
others would be on the train for a while now, and he might have a
chance to escape.</p>

<p>He would lead them a merry dance if he got away into the
tunnels, with a gun!</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'Well, they should be open,' Horza was
saying.&nbsp;&nbsp;According to the console in front of him and
Wubslin, the doors in the reactor car had never been locked in the
first place.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Are you sure you were trying to open them
properly?' He was looking at the engineer.</p>

<p>'Of course,' Wubslin said, sounding hurt.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I know how
different types of locks work.&nbsp;&nbsp;I tried to turn the
recessed wheel; catches off... OK, this arm of mine isn't perfect,
but, well... it should have opened.'</p>

<p>'Probably a malfunction,' Horza said.&nbsp;&nbsp;He
straightened, looking back down the train, as though trying to see
through the hundred metres of metal and plastic between him and the
reactor car.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Hmm.&nbsp;&nbsp;There's not enough room
there for the Mind to hide, is there?'</p>

<p>Wubslin looked up from the panel.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I wouldn't have
thought so.'</p>

<p>'Well, here I am,' Unaha-Closp said testily, floating through
the door to the control deck.&nbsp;&nbsp;'What do you want me to do
now?'</p>

<p>'You took your time searching that other train,' Horza said,
looking at the machine.</p>

<p>'I was being thorough.&nbsp;&nbsp;More thorough than you, unless
I misheard what you were saying before I came in.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where
might there be enough room for the Mind to hide?'</p>

<p>'The reactor car,' Wubslin said.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I couldn't get
through some of the doors.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza says according to the
controls they ought to be open.'</p>

<p>'Shall I go back and have a look, then?' Unaha-Closp turned to
face Horza.</p>

<p>The Changer nodded.&nbsp;&nbsp;'If it isn't asking too much,' he
said levelly.</p>

<p>'No, no,' Unaha-Closp said airily, backing off through the door
it had entered by, 'I'm starting to enjoy being ordered
about.&nbsp;&nbsp;Leave it to me.' It floated away, back through
the front carriage, towards the reactor car.</p>

<p>Balveda looked through the armoured glass, at the rear of the
train in front, the one the drone had been looking through.</p>

<p>'If the Mind was hiding in the reactor car, wouldn't it show up
on your mass sensor, or would it be confused with the trace from
the pile?' She turned her head slowly to look at the Changer.</p>

<p>'Who knows?' Horza said.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I'm not an expert on the
workings of the suit, especially now it's damaged.'</p>

<p>'You're getting very trusting, Horza,' the Culture agent said,
smiling faintly, 'letting the drone do your hunting for you.'</p>

<p>'Just letting it do some scouting, Balveda,' Horza said, turning
away and working at some more of the controls.&nbsp;&nbsp;He
watched screens and dials and meters, changing displays and readout
functions, trying to tell what was going on, if anything, in the
reactor car.&nbsp;&nbsp;It all looked normal, as far as he could
tell, though he knew less about the reactor systems than about most
of the train's other components from his time as a sentinel.</p>

<p>'OK,' Yalson said, turning her chair to one side, putting her
feet upon the edge of one console and taking her helmet
off.&nbsp;&nbsp;'So what do we do if there's no Mind there, in the
reactor car?&nbsp;&nbsp;Do we all start touring round in this
thing, take the transit tube, or what?'</p>

<p>'I don't know that taking a mainline train is a good idea,'
Horza said, glancing at Wubslin.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I considered leaving
everybody else here and taking a transit tube by myself on a
circular journey right round the System, trying to spot the Mind on
the suit mass sensor.&nbsp;&nbsp;It wouldn't take too long, even
doing it twice to cover both sets of tracks between
stations.&nbsp;&nbsp;The transit tubes have no reactors, so it
wouldn't get any false echoes to interfere with the sensor's
readings.'</p>

<p>Wubslin, sitting in the seat which faced the train's main
controls, looked downcast.</p>

<p>'Why not send the rest of us back to the ship, then?' Balveda
said.</p>

<p>Horza looked at her.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Balveda, you are not here to
make suggestions.'</p>

<p>'Just trying to be helpful.' The Culture agent shrugged.</p>

<p>'What if you still can't find anything?' Yalson asked.</p>

<p>'We go back to the ship,' Horza said, shaking his
head.&nbsp;&nbsp;'That's about all we can do.&nbsp;&nbsp;Wubslin
can check the suit mass sensor on board and, depending on what we
find is wrong with it, we might come back down or we might
not.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now the power's on none of that should take very
long or involve any hard slog.'</p>

<p>'Pity,' Wubslin said, fingering the controls.&nbsp;&nbsp;'We
can't even use this train to get back to station four, because of
that train in station six blocking the way.'</p>

<p>'It probably would still move,' Horza told the
engineer.&nbsp;&nbsp;'We'll have to do some shunting whichever way
we go, if we use the mainline trains.'</p>

<p>'Oh, well, then,' Wubslin said, a little dreamily, and looked
over the controls again.&nbsp;&nbsp;He pointed at one of
them.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Is that the speed control?'</p>

<p>Horza laughed, crossing his arms and grinning at the man,
'Yes.&nbsp;&nbsp;We'll see if we can arrange a little journey.' He
leaned over and pointed out a couple of other controls, showing
Wubslin how the train was readied for running.&nbsp;&nbsp;They
pointed and nodded and talked.</p>

<p>Yalson stirred restlessly in her seat.&nbsp;&nbsp;Finally she
looked over at Balveda.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Culture woman was looking at
Horza and Wubslin with a smile; she turned her head to Yalson,
sensing her gaze, and smiled more widely, moving her head
fractionally to indicate the two men and raising her
eyebrows.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson, reluctantly, grinned back, and shifted
the weight of her gun slightly.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The lights came quickly now.&nbsp;&nbsp;They streamed by,
creating a flickering, strobing pattern of light in the dim
cabin.&nbsp;&nbsp;He knew; he had opened his eye and had seen.</p>

<p>It had taken all his strength just to lift that
eyelid.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had drifted off to sleep for a
while.&nbsp;&nbsp;He was not sure for how long, he only knew he had
been dozing.&nbsp;&nbsp;The pain was not so bad now.&nbsp;&nbsp;He
had been still for some time, just lying here with his broken body
slanted out of the strange, alien chair, his head on the control
console, his hand wedged into the small flap by the power control,
fingers jammed under the fail-safe lever inside.</p>

<p>It was restful; he could not have expressed how pleasant it all
was after that awful crawl through both the train and the tunnel of
his own pain.</p>

<p>The train's motion had altered.&nbsp;&nbsp;It still rocked him,
but a little faster now, and with a new rhythm added as well, a
more rapid vibration which was like a heart beating
fast.&nbsp;&nbsp;He thought he could hear it, too,
now.&nbsp;&nbsp;The noise of the wind, blowing through these
deep-buried holes far under the blizzard-swept wastes
above.&nbsp;&nbsp;Or maybe he imagined it.&nbsp;&nbsp;He found it
hard to tell.</p>

<p>He felt like a small child again, on a journey with his year
fellows and their old Querlmentor, rocked to sleep, slipping in and
out of a dozing, happy sleep.</p>

<p>He kept thinking: <em>I have done all I
could.&nbsp;&nbsp;Perhaps not enough, but it was all I had in my
power to do.</em>&nbsp;&nbsp;It was comforting.</p>

<p>Like the ebbing pain, it eased him; like the rocking of the
train, it soothed him.</p>

<p>He closed his eye again.&nbsp;&nbsp;There was comfort in the
darkness, too.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had no idea how far along he was, and
was starting to think it did not matter.&nbsp;&nbsp;Things were
beginning to drift away from him again; he was just beginning to
forget why he was doing all this.&nbsp;&nbsp;But that didn't
matter, either.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was done; so long as he didn't move,
nothing mattered.&nbsp;&nbsp;Nothing.</p>

<p>Nothing at all.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The doors were jammed, all right; same as the other
train.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone became exasperated and slammed against
one the reactor chamber doors with a force field, knocking itself
back through the air with the reaction.</p>

<p>The door wasn't even dented.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p><em>Oh-oh</em>.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Back to the crawlways and cable-runs.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp
turned and headed down a short corridor, then down a hole in the
floor, heading for an inspection panel under the floor of the lower
deck.</p>

<p><em>Of course I end up doing all the work.&nbsp;&nbsp;I might
have known.&nbsp;&nbsp;Basically what I'm doing for that bastard is
hunting down another machine.&nbsp;&nbsp;I ought to have my
circuits tested.&nbsp;&nbsp;I've a good mind not to tell him even
if I do find the Mind somewhere.&nbsp;&nbsp;That would teach
him.</em></p>

<p>It threw back the inspection hatch and lowered itself into the
dim, narrow space under the floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;The hatch hissed shut
after it, blocking out the light.&nbsp;&nbsp;It thought about
turning back and opening the hatch again, but knew it would just
close automatically once more, and that it would lose its temper
and damage the thing, and that was all a bit pointless and petty,
so it didn't; that sort of behaviour was for humans.</p>

<p>It started off along the crawlway, heading towards the rear of
the train, underneath where the reactor ought to be.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The Idiran was talking.&nbsp;&nbsp;Aviger could hear it, but he
wasn't listening.&nbsp;&nbsp;He could see the monster out of the
corner of his eye, too, but he wasn't really looking at
it.&nbsp;&nbsp;He was gazing absently at his gun, humming
tunelessly and thinking about what he would do
if&#151;somehow&#151;he could get hold of the Mind
himself.&nbsp;&nbsp;Suppose the others were killed, and he was left
with the device?&nbsp;&nbsp;He knew the Idirans would probably pay
well for the Mind.&nbsp;&nbsp;So would the Culture; they had money,
even if they weren't supposed to use it in their own
civilisation.</p>

<p>Just dreams, but anything could happen out of this
lot.&nbsp;&nbsp;You never knew how the dust might
fall.&nbsp;&nbsp;He would buy some land: an island on a nice safe
planet somewhere.&nbsp;&nbsp;He'd have some retro-ageing done and
raise some sort of expensive racing animals, and he'd get to know
the better-off people through his connections.&nbsp;&nbsp;Or he'd
get somebody else to do all the hard work; with money you could do
that.&nbsp;&nbsp;You could do anything.</p>

<p>The Idiran went on talking.</p>

<br>
<br>
<p>His hand was almost free.&nbsp;&nbsp;That was all he could get
free for now, but maybe he could twist his arm out later; it was
getting easier all the time.&nbsp;&nbsp;The humans had been on the
train for a while; how much longer would they stay?&nbsp;&nbsp;The
small machine hadn't been on for so long.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had only
just seen it in time, appearing from the tunnel mouth; he knew its
sight was better than his own, and for a moment he had been afraid
it might have seen him moving the arm he was trying to get free,
the one on the far side from the old human.&nbsp;&nbsp;But the
machine had disappeared into the train, and nothing had
happened.&nbsp;&nbsp;He kept looking over at the old man,
checking.&nbsp;&nbsp;The human seemed lost in a
daydream.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle kept talking, telling the empty air
about old Idiran victories.</p>

<p>His hand was almost out.</p>

<p>A little dust came off a girder above him, about a metre over
his head, and floated down through the near still air, falling
almost but not quite straight down, gradually drifting away from
him.&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked at the old man again, and strained at the
wires over his hand. <em>Come free, damn you</em>!</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Unaha-Closp had to hammer a corner from a right angle to a curve
to get into the small passage it wanted to use.&nbsp;&nbsp;It
wasn't even a crawlway; it was a cable conduit, but it led into the
reactor compartment.&nbsp;&nbsp;It checked its senses; same amount
of radiation here as in the other train.</p>

<p>It scraped through the small gap it had created in the
cable-run, deeper into the metal and plastic guts of the silent
carriage.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p><em>I can hear something.&nbsp;&nbsp;Something's coming,
underneath me</em>...</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The lights were a continuous line, flashing past the train too
quickly for most eyes to have distinguished them
individually.&nbsp;&nbsp;The lights ahead, down the track, appeared
round curves or at the far end of straights, swelled and joined and
tore past the windows, like shooting stars in the darkness.</p>

<p>The train had taken a long time to reach its maximum speed,
fought for long minutes to overcome the inertia of its thousands of
tonnes of mass.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now it had done so, and was pushing
itself and the column of air in front of it as fast as it ever
would, hurtling down the long tunnel with a roaring, tearing noise
greater than any train had ever made in those dark passages, its
damaged carriages breaking the air or scraping the blast-door edges
to decrease its speed a little but increase the noise of its
passage a great deal.</p>

<p>The scream of the train's whirling motors and wheels, of its
ruffled metal body tearing through the air and of that same air
swirling through the open spaces of the punctured carriages, rang
from the ceiling and the walls, the consoles and the floor and the
slope of armoured glass.</p>

<p>Quayanorl's eye was closed.&nbsp;&nbsp;Inside his ears,
membranes pulsed to the noise outside, but no message was
transmitted to his brain.&nbsp;&nbsp;His head bobbed up and down on
the vibrating console, as though still alive.&nbsp;&nbsp;His hand
shook on the collision brake override, as if the warrior was
nervous, or afraid.</p>

<p>Wedged there, glued, soldered by his own blood, he was like a
strange, damaged part of the train.</p>

<p>The blood was dried; outside Quayanorl's body, as within, it had
stopped flowing.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'How goes it, Unaha-Closp?' Yalson's voice said.</p>

<p>'I'm under the reactor and I'm busy.&nbsp;&nbsp;I'll let you
know if I find anything.&nbsp;&nbsp;Thank you.' It switched its
communicator off and looked at the black-sheathed entrails in front
of it: wires and cables disappearing into a
cable-run.&nbsp;&nbsp;More than there had been in the front
train.&nbsp;&nbsp;Should it cut its way in, or try another
route?</p>

<p>Decisions, decisions.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>His hand was out.&nbsp;&nbsp;He paused.&nbsp;&nbsp;The old man
was still sitting on the pallet, fiddling with his gun.</p>

<p>Xoxarle allowed himself a small sigh of relief, and flexed his
hand, letting the fingers stretch then fist.&nbsp;&nbsp;A few motes
of dust moved slowly past his cheek.&nbsp;&nbsp;He stopped flexing
his hand.</p>

<p>He watched the dust move.</p>

<p>A breath, something less than a breeze, tickled at his arms and
legs.&nbsp;&nbsp;Most odd, he thought.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'All I'm saying,' Yalson told Horza, shifting her feet on the
console a little, 'is that I don't think it's a good idea for you
to come down here yourself.&nbsp;&nbsp;Anything could happen.'</p>

<p>'I'll take a communicator; I'll check in,' Horza
said.&nbsp;&nbsp;He stood with his arms crossed, his backside
resting on the edge of a control panel; the same one Wubslin's
helmet lay on.&nbsp;&nbsp;The engineer was familiarising himself
with the controls of the train.&nbsp;&nbsp;They were pretty simple
really.</p>

<p>'It's basic, Horza,' Yalson told him; 'you never go
alone.&nbsp;&nbsp;What stuff did they teach you at this goddamned
Academy?'</p>

<p>'If I'm allowed to say anything,' Balveda put in, clasping her
hands in front of her and looking at the Changer, 'I would just
like to say I think Yalson's right.'</p>

<p>Horza stared at the Culture woman with a look of unhappy
amazement.&nbsp;&nbsp;'No, you are not allowed to say anything,' he
told her.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Whose side do you think you're on,
Perosteck?'</p>

<p>'Oh, Horza,' Balveda grinned, crossing her arms, 'I almost feel
like one of the team after all this time.'</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>About half a metre away from the gently rocking, slowly cooling
head of Subordinate-Captain Quayanorl Gidborux Stoghrle III, a
small light began to flash very rapidly on the
console.&nbsp;&nbsp;At the same time, the air in the control deck
was pierced by a high-pitched ululating whine which filled the deck
and the whole front carriage and was relayed to several other
control centres throughout the speeding
train.&nbsp;&nbsp;Quayanorl, his firmly wedged body tugged to one
side by the force of the train roaring round a long curve, could
have heard that noise, just, if he had been alive.&nbsp;&nbsp;Very
few humans could have heard it.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Unaha-Closp thought the better of cutting off all communication
with the outside world, and reopened its communicator
channels.&nbsp;&nbsp;Nobody wanted to speak to it,
however.&nbsp;&nbsp;It started to cut the cables leading into the
conduit, snipping them one by one with a knife-edged force
field.&nbsp;&nbsp;No point in worrying about damaging the thing
after all that had happened to the train in station six, it told
itself.&nbsp;&nbsp;If it hit anything vital to the normal running
of the train, it was sure Horza would yell out soon
enough.&nbsp;&nbsp;It could repair the cables without too much
trouble anyway.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>A <em>draught</em>?</p>

<p>Xoxarle thought he must be imagining it, then that it was the
result of some air-circulation unit recently switched
on.&nbsp;&nbsp;Perhaps the heat from the lights and the station's
systems, once it was powered up, required extra ventilation.</p>

<p>But it grew.&nbsp;&nbsp;Slowly, almost too slowly to discern,
the faint, steady current increased in strength.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle
racked his brains; what could it be?&nbsp;&nbsp;Not a train; surely
not a train.</p>

<p>He listened carefully, but could hear nothing.&nbsp;&nbsp;He
looked over at the old human, and found him staring
back.&nbsp;&nbsp;Had he noticed?</p>

<p>'Run out of battles and victories to tell me about?' Aviger
said, sounding tired.&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked the Idiran up and
down.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle laughed&#151;a little too loudly, even
nervously, had Aviger been well enough versed in Idiran gestures
and voice tones to tell.</p>

<p>'Not at all!' Xoxarle said.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I was just thinking...'
He launched into another tale of defeated enemies.&nbsp;&nbsp;It
was one he had told to his family, in ship messes and in
attack-shuttle holds; he could have told it in his
sleep.&nbsp;&nbsp;While his voice filled the bright station, and
the old human looked down at the gun he held in his hands,
Xoxarle's thoughts were elsewhere, trying to work out what was
going on.&nbsp;&nbsp;He was still pulling and tugging at the wires
on his arm; whatever was happening it was vital to be able to do
more than just move his hand.&nbsp;&nbsp;The draught
increased.&nbsp;&nbsp;Still he could hear nothing.&nbsp;&nbsp;A
steady stream of dust was blowing off the girder above his
head.</p>

<p>It had to be a train.&nbsp;&nbsp;Could one have been left
switched on somewhere?&nbsp;&nbsp;Impossible...</p>

<p><em>Quayanorl!&nbsp;&nbsp;Did we set the controls to&#151;</em>?
But they hadn't tried to jam the controls on.&nbsp;&nbsp;They had
only worked out what the various controls did and tested their
action to make sure they all moved.&nbsp;&nbsp;They hadn't tried to
do anything else; and there had been no point, no time.</p>

<p>It had to be Quayanorl himself.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had done
it.&nbsp;&nbsp;He must still be alive.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had sent the
train.</p>

<p>For an instant&#151;as he tugged desperately at the wires
holding him, talking all the time and watching the old
man&#151;Xoxarle imagined his comrade still back in station six,
but then he remembered how badly injured he had
been.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle had earlier thought his comrade might
still be alive, when he was still lying on the access ramp, but
then the Changer had told the old man, this same Aviger, to go back
and shoot Quayanorl in the head.&nbsp;&nbsp;That should have
finished Quayanorl, but apparently it hadn't.</p>

<p><em>You failed, old one</em>! Xoxarle exulted, as the draught
became a breeze.&nbsp;&nbsp;A distant whining noise, almost too
high pitched to hear, started up.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was muffled, coming
from the train.&nbsp;&nbsp;The alarm.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle's arm,
held by one last wire just above his elbow, was almost
free.&nbsp;&nbsp;He shrugged once, and the wire slipped up over his
upper arm and spilled loose onto his shoulder.</p>

<p>'Old one, Aviger, my friend,' he said.&nbsp;&nbsp;Aviger looked
up quickly as Xoxarle interrupted his own monologue.</p>

<p>'What?'</p>

<p>'This will sound silly, and I shall not blame you if you are
afraid, but I have the most infernal itch in my right
eye.&nbsp;&nbsp;Would you scratch it for me?&nbsp;&nbsp;I know it
sounds silly, a warrior tormented half to death by a sore eye, but
it has been driving me quite demented these past ten
minutes.&nbsp;&nbsp;Would you scratch it?&nbsp;&nbsp;Use the barrel
of your gun if you like; I shall be very careful not to move a
muscle or do anything threatening if you use the muzzle of your
gun.&nbsp;&nbsp;Or anything you like.&nbsp;&nbsp;Would you do
that?&nbsp;&nbsp;I swear to you on my honour as a warrior I tell
the truth.'</p>

<p>Aviger stood up.&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked towards the nose of the
train.</p>

<p><em>He can't hear the alarm.&nbsp;&nbsp;He is
old.&nbsp;&nbsp;Can the other, younger ones hear?&nbsp;&nbsp;Is it
too high-pitched for them?&nbsp;&nbsp;What of the
machine?&nbsp;&nbsp;Oh come here, you old fool.&nbsp;&nbsp;Come
here!</em></p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Unaha-Closp pulled the cut cables apart.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now it could
reach into the cable-run and try cutting further up, so it could
get in.</p>

<p>'Drone, drone can you hear me?' It was the woman Yalson
again.</p>

<p>'<em>Now</em> what?' it said.</p>

<p>'Horza's lost some readouts from the reactor car.&nbsp;&nbsp;He
wants to know what you're doing.'</p>

<p>'Damn right I do,' Horza muttered in the background.</p>

<p>'I had to cut some cables.&nbsp;&nbsp;Seems to be the only way
into the reactor area.&nbsp;&nbsp;I'll repair them later, if you
insist.'</p>

<p>The communicator channel cut off for a second.&nbsp;&nbsp;In
that moment, Unaha-Closp thought it could hear something high
pitched.&nbsp;&nbsp;But it wasn't sure.&nbsp;&nbsp;Fringes of
sensation, it thought to itself.&nbsp;&nbsp;The channel opened
again.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson said, 'All right.&nbsp;&nbsp;But Horza
says to tell him the next time you think about cutting anything,
especially cables.'</p>

<p>'All right, all right!' the drone said.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Now, will
you leave me alone?' The channel closed again.&nbsp;&nbsp;It
thought for a moment.&nbsp;&nbsp;It had crossed its mind that there
might be an alarm sounding somewhere, but logically an alarm ought
to have repeated on the control deck, and it had heard nothing in
the background when Yalson spoke, apart from the Changer's muttered
interjection.&nbsp;&nbsp;Therefore, no alarm.</p>

<p>It reached back into the conduit with a cutter field.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'Which eye?' Aviger said, from just too far away.&nbsp;&nbsp;A
wisp of his thin, yellowish hair was blown across his forehead by
the breeze.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle waited for the man to realise, but
he didn't.&nbsp;&nbsp;He just patted the hairs back and stared up
quizzically at the Idiran's head, gun ready, face uncertain.</p>

<p>'This right one,' Xoxarle said, turning his head
slowly.&nbsp;&nbsp;Aviger looked round towards the nose of the
train again, then back at Xoxarle.</p>

<p>'Don't tell you-know-who, all right?'</p>

<p>'I swear.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now, please; I can't stand it.'</p>

<p>Aviger stepped forward.&nbsp;&nbsp;Still out of
reach.&nbsp;&nbsp;'On your honour, you're not playing a trick?' he
said.</p>

<p>'As a warrior.&nbsp;&nbsp;On my mother-parent's unsullied
name.&nbsp;&nbsp;On my clan and folk!&nbsp;&nbsp;May the galaxy
turn to dust if I lie!'</p>

<p>'All right, all right,' Aviger said, raising his gun and holding
it out high.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I just wanted to make sure.' He poked the
barrel toward Xoxarle's eye.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Whereabouts does it
itch?'</p>

<p>'Here!' hissed Xoxarle.&nbsp;&nbsp;His freed arm lashed out,
grabbed the barrel of the gun and pulled.&nbsp;&nbsp;Aviger, still
holding the gun, was dragged after it, slamming into the chest of
the Idiran.&nbsp;&nbsp;Breath exploded out of him, then the gun
sailed down and smashed into his skull.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle had
averted his head when he'd grabbed the weapon in case it fired, but
he needn't have bothered; Aviger hadn't left it switched on.</p>

<p>In the stiffening breeze, Xoxarle let the unconscious human
slide to the floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;He held the laser rifle in his mouth
and used his hand to set the controls for a quiet
burn.&nbsp;&nbsp;He snapped the trigger guard from the gun's
casing, to make room for his larger fingers.</p>

<p>The wires should melt easily.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Like a squirm of snakes appearing from a hole in the ground, the
bunched cables, cut about a metre along their length, slid out of
the conduit.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp went into the narrow tube and
reached behind the bared ends of the next length of cables.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'Yalson,' Horza said, 'I wouldn't take you with me anyway, even
if I decided not to come back down alone.' He grinned at
her.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson frowned.</p>

<p>'Why not?' she said.</p>

<p>'Because I'd need you on the ship, making sure Balveda here and
our section leader didn't misbehave.'</p>

<p>Yalson's eyes narrowed.&nbsp;&nbsp;'That had better be all,' she
growled.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza's grin widened and he looked away, as
though he wanted to say more, but couldn't for some reason.</p>

<p>Balveda sat, swinging her legs from the edge of the too-big
seat, and wondered what was going on between the Changer and the
dark, down-skinned woman.&nbsp;&nbsp;She thought she had detected a
change in their relationship, a change which seemed to come mostly
from the way Horza treated Yalson.&nbsp;&nbsp;An extra element had
been added; there was something else determining his reactions to
her, but Balveda couldn't pin it down.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was all quite
interesting, but it didn't help her.&nbsp;&nbsp;She had her own
problems anyway.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda knew her own weaknesses, and
one of them was troubling her now.</p>

<p>She really was starting to feel like one of the
team.&nbsp;&nbsp;She watched Horza and Yalson arguing about who
should accompany the Changer if he came back down into the Command
System after a return to the <em>Clear Air Turbulence</em>, and she
could not help but smile, unseen, at them.&nbsp;&nbsp;She liked the
determined, no-nonsense woman, even if her regard was not returned,
and she could not find it in her heart to think of Horza as
implacably as she ought.</p>

<p>It was the Culture's fault.&nbsp;&nbsp;It considered itself too
civilised and sophisticated to hate its enemies; instead it tried
to understand them and their motives, so that it could out-think
them and so that, when it won, it would treat them in a way which
ensured they would not become enemies again.&nbsp;&nbsp;The idea
was fine as long as you didn't get too close, but once you had
spent some time with your opponents, such empathy could turn
against you.&nbsp;&nbsp;There was a sort of detached, non-human
aggression required to go along with such mobilised compassion, and
Balveda could feel it slipping away from her.</p>

<p>Perhaps she felt too safe, she thought.&nbsp;&nbsp;Perhaps it
was because now there was no significant threat.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
battle for the Command System was over; the quest was petering out,
the tension of the past few days disappearing.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Xoxarle worked quickly.&nbsp;&nbsp;The laser's thin, attenuated
beam buzzed and fussed at each wire, turning each strand red,
yellow and white, then&#151;as he strained against them&#151;parted
each one with a snap.&nbsp;&nbsp;The old man at the Idiran's feet
stirred, moaned.</p>

<p>The faint breeze had become a strong one.&nbsp;&nbsp;Dust was
blowing under the train and starting to swirl around Xoxarle's
feet.&nbsp;&nbsp;He moved the laser to another set of
wires.&nbsp;&nbsp;Only a few to go.&nbsp;&nbsp;He glanced towards
the nose of the train.&nbsp;&nbsp;There was still no sign of the
humans or the machine.&nbsp;&nbsp;He glanced back the other way,
over his shoulder, towards the train's last carriage and the gap
between it and the tunnel mouth where the wind was whistling
through.&nbsp;&nbsp;He could see no light, still hear no
noise.&nbsp;&nbsp;The current of air made his eye feel cold.</p>

<p>He turned back and pointed the laser rifle at another set of
wires.&nbsp;&nbsp;The sparks were caught in the breeze and
scattered over the station floor and across the back of Aviger's
suit.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p><em>Typical: me doing all the work as usual</em>, thought
Unaha-Closp.&nbsp;&nbsp;It hauled another bunch of cables out of
the conduit.&nbsp;&nbsp;The wire run behind it was starting to fill
up with cut lengths of wire, blocking the route the drone had taken
to get to the small pipe it was now working in.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p><em>It's beneath me.&nbsp;&nbsp;I can feel it.&nbsp;&nbsp;I can
hear it.&nbsp;&nbsp;I don't know what it's doing, but I can feel, I
can hear.</em></p>

<p><em>And there's something else... another noise</em>...</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The train was a long, articulated shell in some gigantic gun; a
metal scream in a vast throat.&nbsp;&nbsp;It rammed through the
tunnel like a piston in the biggest engine ever made, sweeping
round the curves and into the straights, lights flooding the way
ahead for an instant, air pushed ahead of it&#151;like its howling,
roaring voice&#151;for kilometres.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Dust lifted from the platform, made clouds in the
air.&nbsp;&nbsp;An empty drink container rolled off the pallet
where Aviger had been sitting and clattered to the floor; it
started rolling along the platform, towards the nose of the train,
hitting off the wall a couple of times.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle saw
it.&nbsp;&nbsp;The wind tugged at him, the wires
parted.&nbsp;&nbsp;He got one leg free, then
another.&nbsp;&nbsp;His other arm was out, and the last wires fell
away.</p>

<p>A piece of plastic sheeting lifted from the pallet like some
black, flat bird and flopped onto the platform, sliding after the
metal container, now halfway down the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle
stooped quickly, caught Aviger round the waist and, with the man
held easily in one arm and the laser in his other hand, ran back,
down the platform, towards the wall beside the blocked tunnel mouth
where the wind made a moaning noise past the sloped rear of the
train.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'... or lock them both away down here instead.&nbsp;&nbsp;You
know we can...' Yalson said.</p>

<p><em>We're close</em>, Horza thought, nodding absently at Yalson,
not listening as she told him why he needed her to help him look
for the Mind. <em>We're close, I'm sure we are; I can feel it;
we're almost there.&nbsp;&nbsp;Somehow we've&#151;I've&#151;held it
all together.&nbsp;&nbsp;But it's not over yet, and it only takes
one tiny error, one oversight, a single mistake, and that's it:
fuck-up, failure, death.&nbsp;&nbsp;So far we've done it, despite
the mistakes, but it's so easy to miss something, to fail to spot
some tiny detail in the mass of data which later when you've
forgotten all about it, when your back is turned&#151;creeps up and
clobbers you.</em> The secret was to think of everything,
or&#151;because maybe the Culture was right, and only a machine
could literally do that&#151;just to be so in tune with what was
going on that you thought automatically of all the important and
potentially important things, and ignored the rest.</p>

<p>With something of a shock, Horza realised that his own obsessive
drive never to make a mistake, always to think of everything, was
not so unlike the fetishistic urge which he so despised in the
Culture: that need to make everything fair and equal, to take the
chance out of life.&nbsp;&nbsp;He smiled to himself at the irony
and glanced over at Balveda, sitting watching Wubslin experimenting
with some controls.</p>

<p><em>Coming to resemble your enemies</em>, Horza thought;
<em>maybe there's something in it, after all&#151;</em></p>

<p>'... Horza, are you listening to me?' Yalson said.</p>

<p>'Hmm?&nbsp;&nbsp;Yes, of course,' he smiled.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Balveda frowned, while Horza and Yalson talked on, and Wubslin
poked and prodded at the train's controls.&nbsp;&nbsp;For some
reason, she was starting to feel uneasy.</p>

<p>Outside the front carriage, beyond Balveda's field of view, a
small container rolled along the platform and into the wall
alongside the tunnel mouth.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Xoxarle ran to the rear of the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;By the
entrance to the foot tunnel, leading off at right angles into the
rock behind the station's platform, was the tunnel which the
Changer and the two women had emerged from when they had returned
from their search of the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;It provided the ideal
place from which to watch; Xoxarle thought he would escape the
effects of the collision, and would have the best opportunity for a
clear field of fire, right down the station to the nose of the
train, in the meantime.&nbsp;&nbsp;He could stay there right up
until the train hit.&nbsp;&nbsp;If they tried to get off, he would
have them.&nbsp;&nbsp;He checked the gun, turning its power up to
maximum.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Balveda got down from the seat, folding her arms, and walked
slowly across the control deck towards the side windows, staring
intently at the floor, wondering why she felt uneasy.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The wind howled through the gap between the tunnel edge and the
train; it became a gale.&nbsp;&nbsp;Twenty metres away from where
Xoxarle waited in the foot tunnel, kneeling there with one foot on
the back of the unconscious Aviger, the train's rear carriage
started to rock and sway.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The drone stopped in mid-cut.&nbsp;&nbsp;Two things occurred to
it: one, that dammit there <em>was</em> a funny noise; and two,
that just supposing there had been an alarm sounding on the control
deck, not only would none of the humans be able to hear it, there
was also a good chance that Yalson's helmet mike would not relay
the high-pitched whine, either.</p>

<p>But wouldn't there be a visual warning, too?</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Balveda turned at the side window, without looking out
properly.&nbsp;&nbsp;She sat against the console there, looking
back.</p>

<p>'... on how serious you still are about looking for this damn
thing,' Yalson was saying to Horza.</p>

<p>'Don't worry,' the Changer said, nodding at Yalson, 'I'll find
it.'</p>

<p>Balveda turned round, looked at the station outside.</p>

<p>Just then, Yalson and Wubslin's helmets both came alive with the
urgent voice of the drone.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda was distracted by a
piece of black material, which was sliding quickly along the floor
of the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her eyes widened.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her mouth
opened.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The gale became a hurricane.&nbsp;&nbsp;A distant noise, like a
great avalanche heard from far away, came from the tunnel
mouth.</p>

<p>Then, up the long final straight which led into station seven
from station six, light appeared at the end of the tunnel.</p>

<p>Xoxarle could not see the light, but he could hear the noise; he
brought the gun up and aimed along the side of the stationary
train.&nbsp;&nbsp;The stupid humans <em>must</em> realise soon.</p>

<p>The steel rails began to whine.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The drone backed quickly out of the conduit.&nbsp;&nbsp;It threw
the cut, discarded lengths of cable against the
walls.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Yalson!&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza!' it shouted at them
through its communicator.&nbsp;&nbsp;It dashed along the short
length of narrow tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;The instant it turned the
corner it had hammered in to make passable, it could hear the
faint, high, insistent wailing of the alarm.&nbsp;&nbsp;'There's an
alarm!&nbsp;&nbsp;I can hear it!&nbsp;&nbsp;What's happening?'</p>

<p>There, in the crawlway, it could feel and hear the rush of air
coursing through and around the train.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'There's a gale blowing out there!' Balveda said quickly, as
soon as the drone's voice stopped.&nbsp;&nbsp;Wubslin lifted his
helmet from the console.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where it had lain, a small
orange light was flashing.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza stared at
it.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda looked up at the platform.&nbsp;&nbsp;Clouds
of dust blew along the station floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;Light equipment
was being blown off the pallet, opposite the rear access
gantry.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Horza,' Balveda said quietly, 'I can't see
Xoxarle, or Aviger.'</p>

<p>Yalson was on her feet.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza glanced over at the
side window, then back at the light, winking on the
console.&nbsp;&nbsp;'It's an alarm!' the drone's voice shouted from
the two helmets.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I can hear it!'</p>

<p>Horza picked up his rifle, grabbed the edge of Yalson's helmet
while she held it and said, 'It's a train, drone; that's the
collision alarm.&nbsp;&nbsp;Get off the train now.' He let go of
the helmet, which Yalson quickly shoved over her head and
locked.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza gestured towards the
door.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Move!' he said loudly, glancing round at Yalson,
Balveda and Wubslin, who was still sitting holding the helmet he
had removed from the console.</p>

<p>Balveda headed for the door.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson was just behind
her.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza started forward, then turned as he went,
looked back at Wubslin, who was setting his helmet down on the
floor and turning back to the controls.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Wubslin!' he
yelled.&nbsp;&nbsp;'<em>Move</em>!'</p>

<p>Balveda and Yalson were running through the
carriage.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson looked back, hesitated.</p>

<p>'I'm going to get it moving,' Wubslin said urgently, not turning
to look at Horza.&nbsp;&nbsp;He punched some buttons.</p>

<p>'Wubslin!' Horza shouted.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Get out,
<em>now</em>!'</p>

<p>'It's all right, Horza,' Wubslin said, still flicking buttons
and switches, glancing at screens and dials, grimacing when he had
to move his injured arm, and still not turning his
head.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I know what I'm doing.&nbsp;&nbsp;You get
off.&nbsp;&nbsp;I'll get her moving; you'll see.'</p>

<p>Horza glanced towards the rear of the train.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson
was standing in the middle of the forward carriage, just visible
through two open doors, her head going from side to side as she
looked first at the still running Balveda heading for the second
carriage and the access ramps, and then at Horza, waiting in the
control deck.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza motioned her to get
out.&nbsp;&nbsp;He turned and strode forward and took Wubslin by
one elbow.&nbsp;&nbsp;'You crazy bastard!' he
shouted.&nbsp;&nbsp;'It could be coming at fifty metres a second;
have you any idea how long it takes to get one of these things
moving?' He hauled at the engineer's arm.&nbsp;&nbsp;Wubslin turned
quickly and hit Horza across the face with his free
hand.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza was thrown back over the floor of the
control deck, more amazed than hurt.&nbsp;&nbsp;Wubslin turned back
to the controls.</p>

<p>'Sorry, Horza, but I can get it round that bend and out of the
way.&nbsp;&nbsp;You get out now.&nbsp;&nbsp;Leave me.'</p>

<p>Horza took his laser rifle, stood up, watched the engineer
working at the controls, then turned and ran from the
place.&nbsp;&nbsp;As he did so, the train lurched, seeming to flex
and tighten.</p>

<p>Yalson followed the Culture woman.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza had waved at
her to go on, so she did.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Balveda!' she
shouted.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Emergency exits; go down; bottom deck!'</p>

<p>The Culture agent didn't hear.&nbsp;&nbsp;She was still heading
for the next carriage and the access ramps.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson ran
after her, cursing.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The drone exploded out of the floor and raced through the
carriage for the nearest emergency hatch.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p><em>That vibration!&nbsp;&nbsp;It's a train!&nbsp;&nbsp;Another
train's coming, fast!&nbsp;&nbsp;What have those idiots
done?&nbsp;&nbsp;I have to get out!</em></p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Balveda skidded round a corner, threw out one hand and caught
hold of a bulkhead edge; she dived for the open door which led to
the middle access ramp.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson's footsteps pounded
behind her.</p>

<p>She ran out onto the ramp, into a howling gale, a constant,
gustless hurricane.&nbsp;&nbsp;Instantly the air around her
detonated with cracks and sparks; light glared from all sides, and
the girders blew out in molten lines.&nbsp;&nbsp;She threw herself
flat, sliding and rolling along the surface of the
ramp.&nbsp;&nbsp;The girders ahead of her, where the ramp turned
and sloped down to one side, glittered with laser
fire.&nbsp;&nbsp;She got half up again and, feet and hands
scrabbling for purchase on the ramp, threw herself back into the
train fractionally before the moving line of shots blasted into the
side of the ramp and the girders and guard rails
beyond.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson almost tripped over her; Balveda reached
up and grabbed the other woman's arm.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Somebody's
firing!'</p>

<p>Yalson went forward to the edge and started firing back.</p>

<p>The train gave a lurch.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The final straight between station six and station seven was
over three kilometres long.&nbsp;&nbsp;The time between the point
the racing machine's lights would have become visible from the rear
of the train sitting in station seven, and the instant the train
flashed out of the dark tunnel into the station itself, occupied
less than a minute.</p>

<p>Dead, body shaking and rocking, but still wedged too tightly to
be dislodged from the controls, Quayanorl's cold, closed eye faced
a scene through sloped, armoured glass of a night-dark space strung
with twin bright lines of almost solid light, and directly in
front, rapidly enlarging, a halo of brightness, a glaring ring of
luminescence with a grey, metallic core.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Xoxarle cursed.&nbsp;&nbsp;The target had moved quickly, and
he'd missed.&nbsp;&nbsp;But they were trapped on the
train.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had them.&nbsp;&nbsp;The old human under his
knee moaned and tried to move.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle trod down harder
on him and got ready to shoot again.&nbsp;&nbsp;The jetstream of
air screamed out of the tunnel and round the rear of the train.</p>

<p>Answering shots splashed randomly around the rear of the
station, well away from him.&nbsp;&nbsp;He smiled.&nbsp;&nbsp;Just
then, the train moved.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>'Get out!' Horza said, arriving at the door where the two women
were, one firing, one crouched down, risking the occasional look
out.&nbsp;&nbsp;The air was whirling into the carriage, shaking and
roaring.</p>

<p>'It must be Xoxarle!' Yalson shouted above the noise of the
storming wind.&nbsp;&nbsp;She leant out and fired.&nbsp;&nbsp;More
shots rippled over the access ramp and thudded into the outer hull
of the train around the door.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda ducked back as hot
fragments blew in through the open door.&nbsp;&nbsp;The train
seemed to wobble, then move forward, very slowly.</p>

<p>'What&#151;?' Yalson yelled, looking round at Horza as he joined
her at the door.&nbsp;&nbsp;He shrugged as he leant out to fire
down the platform.</p>

<p>'Wubslin!' he shouted.&nbsp;&nbsp;He sent a hail of fire down
the length of the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;The train crept forward;
already a metre of the access ramp was hidden by the side of the
train's hull near the open door.&nbsp;&nbsp;Something sparkled in
the darkness of the distant tunnel, where the wind screamed and the
dust blew and a noise like never-ending thunder came.</p>

<p>Horza shook his head.&nbsp;&nbsp;He waved Balveda forward, to
the ramp, now with only about half its breadth available from the
door.&nbsp;&nbsp;He fired again; Yalson leant out and fired,
too.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda started forward.</p>

<p>At that moment a hatch blew out, near the middle of the train,
and from the same carriage a huge circular plug of train hull fell
clanging out&#151;a great flat cork of thick wall tipping down to
the station floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;A small dark shape dashed from the
broken hatch, and from the great circular hole nearby a silver
point came, swelling quickly to a fat, bright, reflecting ovoid as
the wall section hit the platform, the drone whizzed through the
air, and Balveda started forward along the ramp.</p>

<p>'There it is!' Yalson screamed.</p>

<p>The Mind was out of the train, starting to turn and race
off.&nbsp;&nbsp;Then the flickering laser fire from the far end of
the station switched; no longer smashing into the access ramp and
girders, it began to scatter flashing explosions of light all over
the surface of the silvery ellipsoid.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Mind seemed to
stop, hang in the air, shaken by the fusilade of laser shots; then
it fell sideways, out over the platform, its smooth surface
suddenly starting to ripple and grow dim as it rolled through the
rushing air, falling towards the side wall of the station like a
crippled airship.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda was across the ramp, running
down the sloped section, almost at the lower level.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Get
out!' Horza yelled, shoving Yalson.&nbsp;&nbsp;The train was away
from the ramps now, motors growling but unheard in the raging
hurricane which swept through the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson
slapped her wrist, switching on her AG, then leapt out of the door
into the gale, still firing.</p>

<p>Horza leant out, having to fire through the girders of the
access ramp.&nbsp;&nbsp;He held onto the train with one hand, felt
it shaking like a frightened animal.&nbsp;&nbsp;Some of his shots
smacked into the access ramp girders, blasting fountains of debris
out into the slipstream of air and making him duck back in.</p>

<p>The Mind crunched into the side wall of the station, rolling
over to lodge in the angle between the floor and the curved wall,
its silver skin quivering, going dull.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp twisted through the air, avoiding laser
shots.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda reached the bottom of the ramp and ran
across the station floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;The fan of shots from the
distant foot tunnel seemed to hesitate between her and the flying
figure of Yalson, then swept up to close around the woman in the
suit.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson fired back, but the shots found her, made
her suit sparkle.</p>

<p>Horza threw himself out of the train, falling to the ground from
the slowly moving carriage, crashing into the rock floor, winding
himself, being bowled over by the tearing blast of
air.&nbsp;&nbsp;He ran forward as soon as he could get to his feet,
bouncing up from the impact, firing through the hurricane towards
the far end of the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;Yalson still flew, moving
into the torrent of air and the crackling laser fire.</p>

<p>Light blazed around the rear of the train, now heading at a
little over walking speed from the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;The noise of
the oncoming train&#151;drowning out every other sound, even
explosions and shots, so that everything else seemed to be
happening in a shocked silence within that ultimate
scream&#151;rose in pitch.</p>

<p>Yalson dropped; her suit was damaged.</p>

<p>Her legs started to work before she hit the ground, and when she
did she was running, running for the nearest cover.&nbsp;&nbsp;She
ran for the Mind, dull silver by the wall side.</p>

<p>And changed her mind.</p>

<p>She turned, just before she would have been able to dive behind
the Mind, and ran on round it, towards the doorways and alcoves of
the wall beyond.</p>

<p>Xoxarle's fire slammed into her again the instant she turned,
and this time her suit armour could soak up no more energy; it gave
way, the laser fire bursting through like lightning all over the
woman's body, throwing her into the air, blowing her arms out,
kicking her legs from under her, jerking her like a doll caught in
the fist of an angry child, and throwing a bright crimson cloud
from her chest and abdomen.</p>

<p>The train hit.</p>

<p>It flashed into the station on a tide of noise; it roared from
the tunnel like a solid metal thunderbolt, seeming to cross the
space between the tunnel mouth and the slowly moving train in front
in the same instant as it appeared.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle, closest of
them all, caught a fleeting glimpse of the train's sleek shining
nose before that great shovel front slammed into the back of the
other train.</p>

<p>He could not have believed there was a sound greater than that
the train had made in the tunnel, but the noise of its impact
dwarfed even that cacophony.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was a star of sound, a
blinding nova where before there had only been a dim glow.</p>

<p>The train hit at over one hundred and ninety kilometres per
hour.&nbsp;&nbsp;Wubslin's train had barely progressed a
carriage-length into the tunnel and was moving hardly faster than
walking speed.</p>

<p>The racing train smashed into the rear coach, lifting and
crumpling it in a fraction of a second, crushing it into the tunnel
roof, jack-hammering its layers of metal and plastic into a tight
wad of wreckage in the same instant as its own nose and front
carriage caved in underneath, shattering wheels, snapping rails and
bursting the train's metal skin like shrapnel from some vast
grenade.</p>

<p>The train ploughed on: into and under the front train, skidding
and crashing to one side as smashed sections of the two trains
kicked out to the wall side of the tracks, forcing them both into
the main body of the station in a welter of tearing metal and
fractured stone, while the carriages bucked, squashed, telescoped
and disintegrated all at once.</p>

<p>The whole length of the racing train continued to pour out of
the tunnel, coaches flashing by, streaming into the chaos of
disintegrating wreckage in front, lifting and crashing and
slewing.&nbsp;&nbsp;Flames burst and flickered in the detonating
debris; sparks fountained; glass blew spraying out from the
breaking windows; flaying ribbons of metal beat at the walls.</p>

<p>Xoxarle ducked in, away from the pulverising sound of it.</p>

<p>Wubslin felt the train hit.&nbsp;&nbsp;It threw him back in the
chair. He knew already he had failed; the train, his train, was
going too slowly.&nbsp;&nbsp;A great hand from nowhere rammed into
his back; his ears popped; the control deck, the carriage, the
whole train shook round him, and suddenly, in the midst of it, the
rear of the next train, the one in the repair and maintenance
cavern, was racing towards him.&nbsp;&nbsp;He felt his train jump
the tracks on the curve that might have let him roll to
safety.&nbsp;&nbsp;The acceleration went on.&nbsp;&nbsp;He was
pinned, helpless.&nbsp;&nbsp;The rear carriage of the other train
flashed towards him; he closed his eyes, half a second before he
was crushed like an insect inside the wreckage.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza
was curled in a small doorway in the station wall, with no idea how
he had got there.&nbsp;&nbsp;He didn't look, he couldn't
see.&nbsp;&nbsp;He whimpered in a corner while the devastation
bellowed in his ears, pelted his back with debris and shook the
walls and floor.</p>

<p>Balveda had found a space in the wall, too&#151;an alcove where
she hid, her back turned, her face hidden.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp had planted itself on the station ceiling, behind
the cover of a camera dome.&nbsp;&nbsp;It watched the crash as it
went on beneath; it saw the last carriage leave the tunnel, saw the
crashing train smash into and through the one they had been in only
seconds before, pushing it forward in a skidding, tangled mess of
mangled metal.&nbsp;&nbsp;Carriages left the tracks, skidding
sideways over the station floor as the wreck slowed, tearing the
access ramps from the rock, smashing lights from the ceiling;
debris flew up, and the drone had to dodge.&nbsp;&nbsp;It saw
Yalson's body, beneath it on the platform, hit by the slewing,
rolling carriages, tumbling over the fused rock surface in a cloud
of sparks; they swept past, just missing the Mind, scraped the
woman's torn body from the floor and buried it with the access
ramps in the wall, hammering into the black rock by the side of the
tunnel where a squeezed-out collar of wreckage swelled as the last
of the impetus from the collision spent itself compressing metal
and stone together.</p>

<p>Fire burst out; sparks flashed from the tracks; the station
lights flickered.&nbsp;&nbsp;Wreckage fell back, and the quivering
echo of the wreck reverberated through the
station.&nbsp;&nbsp;Smoke started up, explosions shook the station,
and suddenly, from out of the ceiling, surprising the drone, water
started to spray from holes all along the surface of rock, beside
the flickering lines of lights.&nbsp;&nbsp;The water turned to foam
and floated down through the air like warm snow.</p>

<p>The mangled wreckage hissed and groaned and creaked as it
settled.&nbsp;&nbsp;Flames licked over it, fighting against the
falling foam as they found flammables in the debris.</p>

<p>Then there was a scream, and the drone looked down through a
haze of smoke and foam.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza ran from a doorway in the
wall, just up the platform from the near edge of the burning metal
rubble.</p>

<p>The man ran up the wreckage-littered platform, screaming and
firing his gun.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone saw rock fracture and explode
around the distant tunnel entrance Xoxarle had been firing
from.&nbsp;&nbsp;It expected to see answering fire and the man
fall, but there was nothing.&nbsp;&nbsp;The man kept on running and
firing, shouting incoherently all the time.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone
couldn't see Balveda.</p>

<p>Xoxarle had stuck the gun round the corner as soon as the noise
died away; at the same time the man appeared and started
firing.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle had time to take aim but not to
fire.&nbsp;&nbsp;A shot landed near the gun, on the wall, and
something hammered into Xoxarle's hand; the gun sputtered, then
went dead.&nbsp;&nbsp;A splinter of rock protruded from the
weapon's casing.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle swore, threw it away across the
tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;More shots burst around the tunnel mouth as the
Changer fired again.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle looked down at Aviger, who
was moving weakly on the floor, face down, limbs shifting in the
air and over the rock like somebody trying to swim.</p>

<p>Xoxarle had kept the old one alive to use as a hostage, but he
was of little use now.&nbsp;&nbsp;The woman Yalson was dead; he had
killed her, and Horza wanted to avenge her.</p>

<p>Xoxarle crushed Aviger's skull with his foot, then turned and
ran.</p>

<p>There were twenty metres to run before the first
turn.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle ran as fast as he could, ignoring the
pains from his legs and body.&nbsp;&nbsp;An explosion sounded from
the station.&nbsp;&nbsp;A hissing noise came from above Xoxarle's
head, and spurts of water from the sprinkler system stared to fall
from the ceiling.</p>

<p>The air glowed with laser fire as he dived for the first side
tunnel; the wall blew out at him, and something hit his leg and
back.&nbsp;&nbsp;He ran on, limping.</p>

<p>There were some doors ahead, to the left.&nbsp;&nbsp;He tried to
remember how the stations were laid out.&nbsp;&nbsp;The doors ought
to lead to the control room and accommodation dormitories; he could
cut through there, cross the repair and maintenance cavern by the
gantry bridge, and get up a side tunnel to the transit tube
system.&nbsp;&nbsp;That way he could escape.&nbsp;&nbsp;He hobbled
quickly, shoulder-charging the doors.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Charger's
steps sounded loud somewhere in the tunnels behind him.</p>

<p>The drone watched Horza, his gun still firing, his legs pumping,
run up the platform like a madman, screaming and howling and
vaulting bits of wreckage.&nbsp;&nbsp;He sprinted over the place
where Yalson's body had lain before it was brushed from the station
floor by the tumbling carriages, then ran on, preceded by a cone of
glowing light from his gun, past where the pallet had been, to the
far end of the station, where Xoxarle had been firing from, and
disappeared into the side tunnel.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp floated down.&nbsp;&nbsp;The wreckage crackled and
fumed; the foam fell to sleet.&nbsp;&nbsp;The ugly smell of some
noxious gas started to fill the air.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone's sensors
detected medium-high radiation.&nbsp;&nbsp;A series of small
explosions burst from the wrecked carriages, starting fresh fires
to replace the ones smothered by the foam now coating the chaos of
the mangled metal like snow on jagged mountains.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp came up to the Mind.&nbsp;&nbsp;It lay by the wall,
its surface rippled and dark, the colours of oil on water, and
dull.</p>

<p>'Bet you though you were smart, didn't
you?'&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp said to it quietly.&nbsp;&nbsp;Perhaps
it could hear, maybe it was dead; it had no way of
telling.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Hiding in the reactor like that: I bet I know
what you did with the pile, too; dumped it down one of those deep
shafts, near one of the emergency ventilation motors, maybe even
the one we saw on the screen of the mass sensor on the first
day.&nbsp;&nbsp;Then hid in the train.&nbsp;&nbsp;Pleased with
yourself, I'll bet.</p>

<p>'Look where it got you, though.' The drone looked at the silent
Mind.&nbsp;&nbsp;Its top surface was collecting the falling
foam.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone brushed its own casing clear with a
force field.</p>

<p>The Mind moved; it lifted abruptly about half a metre, one end
at a time, and the air hissed and crackled for a
second.&nbsp;&nbsp;The device's surface shimmered momentarily while
Unaha-Closp backed off, uncertain what was
happening.&nbsp;&nbsp;Then the Mind fell back, and rested lightly
on the floor again, the colours on its ovoid skin shifting
lazily.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone smelled ozone.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Down but
not quite out, eh?' it said.&nbsp;&nbsp;The station began to darken
as the undamaged lights were clouded by the rising smoke.</p>

<p>Somebody coughed.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp turned and saw
Perosteck Balveda staggering from an alcove.&nbsp;&nbsp;She was
bent double, holding her back, and coughing.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her head
was gashed and her skin looked the colour of ashes.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
drone floated over to her.</p>

<p>'Another survivor,' it said, more to itself than to the
woman.&nbsp;&nbsp;It went to her side and used a field to support
her.&nbsp;&nbsp;The fumes in the air were choking the
woman.&nbsp;&nbsp;Blood leaked from her forehead, and there was a
wet patch of red glistening on the back of the jacket she wore.</p>

<p>'What...' she coughed.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Who else?' Her footsteps were
unsteady, and the drone had to support her as she stumbled over
scattered pieces of the train's carriages and sections of
track.&nbsp;&nbsp;Rocks littered the floor, torn from the walls of
the station during the impact.</p>

<p>'Yalson's dead,' Unaha-Closp said
matter-of-factly.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Wubslin, too,
probably.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza's chasing Xoxarle.&nbsp;&nbsp;Don't know
about Aviger; didn't see him.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Mind is still alive, I
think.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was moving, anyway.'</p>

<p>They approached the Mind; it lay, bobbing up and down at one end
every now and again, as though trying to get into the
air.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda tried to go over to it, but the drone held
her back.</p>

<p>'Leave it, Balveda,' it told her, forcing her to keep heading up
the platform, her feet skidding on the debris.&nbsp;&nbsp;She went
on coughing, her face contorted with pain.&nbsp;&nbsp;'You'll
suffocate in this atmosphere if you try to stay,' the drone said
gently.&nbsp;&nbsp;'The Mind can look after itself, or if not there
isn't anything you can do for it.'</p>

<p>'I'm all right,' Balveda insisted.&nbsp;&nbsp;She stopped,
straightened; her face became calm, and she stopped
coughing.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone stopped, too, looking at
her.&nbsp;&nbsp;She turned to face it, breathing normally, her face
still ashen but her expression serene.&nbsp;&nbsp;She brought her
hand away from her back, covered in blood, and with the other hand
wiped some of the red fluid from her forehead and
eye.&nbsp;&nbsp;She smiled.&nbsp;&nbsp;'You see.'</p>

<p>Then her eyes closed, she doubled at the waist, and her head
came swooping down towards the rock floor of the station as her
legs buckled.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp caught her neatly in mid-air before she hit the
floor and floated her out of the platform area, through the first
set of side doors it found, leading towards the control rooms and
accommodation section.</p>

<p>Balveda started to come round in the fresh air, before they had
gone more than ten metres along the tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;Explosions
boomed behind them, and the air moved in pulses along the gallery
like beats of a huge erratic heart.&nbsp;&nbsp;The lights
flickered; water started to drip, then pour from the tunnel
roof.</p>

<p><em>Just as well I don't rust</em>, Unaha-Closp said to itself,
as it floated along the tube to the control room, the woman
stirring in its force-field grip.&nbsp;&nbsp;It heard the noise of
firing: laser fire, but it couldn't tell whereabouts the firing was
because the noise came from ahead and behind and above, through
ventilation outlets.</p>

<p>'See... I'm fine...' Balveda muttered.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone let
her move; they were nearly at the control room, and the air was
still fresh, the radiation level decreasing.&nbsp;&nbsp;More
explosions rocked the station; Balveda's hair, and the fur on her
jacket, moved in the air current, releasing flakes of
foam.&nbsp;&nbsp;Water streamed down, pattering and splashing.</p>

<p>The drone moved through the doors into the control room; the
room's lights did not flicker, and the air was clear.&nbsp;&nbsp;No
water flowed from the ceiling, and only the woman's body and its
own casing dripped on the plastic-covered floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;'That's
better,' Unaha-Closp said.&nbsp;&nbsp;It laid the woman down on a
chair.&nbsp;&nbsp;More muffled detonations shuddered through the
rock and the air.</p>

<p>Lights flickered and flashed throughout the room, from every
console and panel.</p>

<p>The drone sat the Culture woman up, then gently shoved her head
down between her knees and fanned her face.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
explosions boomed, shaking the atmosphere in the room like...
like... like stamping feet!</p>

<p>Dum-<em>drum</em>-dum.&nbsp;&nbsp;Dum-<em>drum</em>-dum.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp hauled Balveda's head up, and was about to scoop her
from the chair when the footsteps from beyond the far door, no
longer masked by the sound of explosions from the station itself,
suddenly swelled in volume; the doors were kicked
open.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle, wounded, limping as he ran, water
streaming from his body, cannoned into the room; he saw Balveda and
the drone and headed straight for them.</p>

<p>Unaha-Closp rammed forward, right at the Idiran's
head.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle caught the machine in one hand and slammed
it into a control console, smashing screens and light panels in a
fury of sparks and acrid smoke.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp stayed
there, jammed halfway into the fused and spluttering switch
assembly, smoke pouring out around it.</p>

<p>Balveda opened her eyes, stared round, her face bloodied and
wild and frightened; she saw Xoxarle and started forward towards
him, opening her mouth but only coughing.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle
grabbed her, pinning her arms to her side.&nbsp;&nbsp;He looked
round, to the doors he had smashed through, pausing for a second to
draw breath.&nbsp;&nbsp;He was weakening, he knew.&nbsp;&nbsp;His
keratinous back plates were almost burnt through where the Changer
had shot him, and his leg was hit, too, slowing him all the
time.&nbsp;&nbsp;The human would catch him soon...&nbsp;&nbsp;He
looked into the face of the female he held and decided not to kill
her immediately.</p>

<p>'Perhaps you'll stay the little one's trigger finger...' Xoxarle
breathed, holding Balveda over his back with one arm and hobbling
quickly to the door leading to the dormitories and accommodation
section and then to the repair area.&nbsp;&nbsp;He kneed the doors
open and let them close behind him.&nbsp;&nbsp;'... But I doubt
it,' he added, and hobbled down the short tunnel, then through the
first dormitory, under the swaying nets, in a flickering, uncertain
light, as the sprinklers started to come on above.</p>

<p>In the control room, Unaha-Closp pulled itself free, its casing
covered in burning pieces of plastic wire
covering.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Filthy bastard,' it said groggily, wavering
through the air away from the smoking console, 'you walking
cell-menagerie...' Unaha-Closp turned unsteadily through the smoke
and made for the doors Xoxarle had come through.&nbsp;&nbsp;It
hesitated there, then with a sort of shaking, shrugging motion
moved away down the tunnel, gathering speed.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Horza had lost the Idiran.&nbsp;&nbsp;He had followed him down
the tunnel, then through some broken doors.&nbsp;&nbsp;There was a
choice then: left, right or ahead; three short corridors, lights
flickering, water showering from the roof, smoke crawling under the
ceiling in lazy waves.</p>

<p>Horza had gone right, the way the Idiran would have gone if he
was heading for the transit tubes, and if he had worked out the
right direction, and if he didn't have some other plan.</p>

<p>But he'd chosen the wrong way.</p>

<p>He held the gun tight in his hands.&nbsp;&nbsp;His face ran with
the false tears of the showering water.&nbsp;&nbsp;The gun hummed
through his gloves; a swollen ball of pain rose from his belly,
filling his throat and his eyes and souring his mouth, weighing in
his hands, clamping his teeth.&nbsp;&nbsp;He stopped at another
junction, near the dormitories, in an agony of indecision, looking
from one direction to another while the water fell and the smoke
crept and the lights guttered.&nbsp;&nbsp;He heard a scream, and
set off that way.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The woman struggled.&nbsp;&nbsp;She was strong, but still
powerless, even in his weakened grasp.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle limped
along the corridor, towards the great cavern.</p>

<p>Balveda screamed, tried to wriggle her way free, then use her
legs to kick at the Idiran's thighs and knees.&nbsp;&nbsp;But she
was held too tightly, too high on Xoxarle's back.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her
arms were pinned at her sides; her legs could only beat against the
keratin plate which curved out from the Idiran's
rump.&nbsp;&nbsp;Behind her, the sleep-nets of the Command System's
builders swayed gently in the tides of air which swept through the
long dormitory with each fresh explosion from the platform area and
the wrecked trains.</p>

<p>She heard firing from somewhere behind them, and doors at the
far end of the long room blew out.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Idiran heard the
noise, too; just before they crashed through the exit from the
dormitory his head turned to glance back in the direction the noise
had come from.&nbsp;&nbsp;Then they were in the short corridor and
out onto the terrace which ran round the deep cavern of the repair
and maintenance area.</p>

<p>On one side of the huge cavern, a fallen, tangled heap of
smashed carriages and wrecked machinery blazed.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
train Wubslin had started moving had been rammed into the rear of
the train already in the long scooped-out alcove which hung over
the cavern floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;Parts of both the front trains had
scattered like toys; down to the cavern floor, piled against the
walls, crushed into the roof.&nbsp;&nbsp;The foam fell through the
cavern, sizzling on the hot debris of the wreck, where flames
spilled up from crumpled carriages, and sparks flashed.</p>

<p>Xoxarle slipped on the terrace, and for one second Balveda
thought they would both skid off its surface, over the guard rails
and down to the jumble of machinery and equipment on the cold, hard
floor below.&nbsp;&nbsp;But the Idiran steadied himself, turned and
pounded along the broad walkway towards the metal catwalk which
crossed the breadth of the cavern and led over the far edge of the
terrace into another tunnel&#151;the tunnel which led to the
transit tubes.</p>

<p>She heard the Idiran breathe.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her ringing ears caught
the crackle of flames, the hiss of foam and the laboured wheeze of
Xoxarle's breath.&nbsp;&nbsp;He held her easily, as though she
weighed nothing.&nbsp;&nbsp;She cried out in frustration, heaved
her body with all her strength, trying to break his grip or even
just get an arm free, struggling weakly.</p>

<p>They came to the suspended catwalk, and again the Idiran almost
slipped, then again caught himself in time and
steadied.&nbsp;&nbsp;He started along the narrow gantry, his
limping, unsteady tread shaking it, making it sound like a metal
drum.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her back hurt as she strained; Xoxarle's grip
stayed firm.</p>

<p>Then he skidded to a halt, brought her round in front of his
huge, saddle-face.&nbsp;&nbsp;He held her by both shoulders for a
moment, then took her right arm by the elbow with one hand, keeping
hold of her right shoulder with the other fist.</p>

<p>He brought one knee out, holding his thigh level with the cavern
floor, thirty metres below.&nbsp;&nbsp;Held by elbow and shoulder,
her weight taken by that one arm, her back aching, her head hardly
clear, she suddenly realised what he was going to do.</p>

<p>She screamed.</p>

<p>Xoxarle brought the woman's upper arm down across his thigh,
snapping it like a twig.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her cry broke like ice.</p>

<p>He took her by the wrist of her good arm and swung her out over
the side of the catwalk, sweeping her down beneath him and
positioning her hand on a thin metal stanchion, then he left
her.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was done in a second or two; she swung like a
pendulum under the metal bridge.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle ran off,
limping.&nbsp;&nbsp;Each step, shaking the suspended gantry,
vibrated through the stanchion to Balveda's hand, loosening her
grip.&nbsp;&nbsp;She hung there.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her broken arm dangled
uselessly at her side.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her hand gripped the cold,
smooth, foam-smeared surface of the thin stanchion.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her
head spun; waves of pain she tried to but could not shut off
crashed through her.&nbsp;&nbsp;The cavern lights blinked out, then
came back on again.&nbsp;&nbsp;Another explosion shook the wrecked
carriages.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle crossed the catwalk and ran hobbling
over the terrace on the other side of the great cave, into the
tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her hand started to slip, going numb; her whole
arm was going cold.</p>

<p>Perosteck Balveda twisted in the air, put her head back, and
howled.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>The drone stopped.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now the noises were from
behind.&nbsp;&nbsp;It had taken the wrong direction.&nbsp;&nbsp;It
was still fuddled; Xoxarle hadn't doubled back after all. <em>I'm a
fool!&nbsp;&nbsp;I shouldn't be allowed out by myself!</em></p>

<p>It turned its body over in the air of the tunnel leading away
from the control room and the long dormitories, slowed and stopped,
then powered back down the way it had come.&nbsp;&nbsp;It could
hear laser fire.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Horza was in the control room; it was clear of water and foam,
though smoke was coming from a large hole in one
console.&nbsp;&nbsp;He hesitated, then heard another
scream&#151;the sound of a human, a woman&#151;and ran through the
doors leading to the dormitories.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>She tried to swing herself, make a pendulum of her body and so
hook a leg onto the gantry, but the already injured muscles in her
lower back could not do it; the muscle fibres tore; pain swamped
her.&nbsp;&nbsp;She hung.&nbsp;&nbsp;She couldn't feel her
hand.&nbsp;&nbsp;Foam settled on her upturned face and stung her
eyes.&nbsp;&nbsp;A series of explosions wracked the mangled heap of
carriages, making the air around her quiver, shaking
her.&nbsp;&nbsp;She felt herself slip; she dropped fractionally,
her grip moving down the stanchion a millimetre or
two.&nbsp;&nbsp;She tried to hold on tighter, but could feel
nothing.</p>

<p>Noise came from the terrace.&nbsp;&nbsp;She tried to look round
and in a moment she saw Horza, racing along the terrace for the
catwalk, holding the gun.&nbsp;&nbsp;He skidded on the foam and had
to reach out with his free hand to steady himself.</p>

<p>'Horza...' she tried to shout, but all that came out was a
croak.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza ran along the catwalk above her, staring
ahead.&nbsp;&nbsp;His steps shook her band; it had started to slip
again.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Horza...' she said again, as loud as she
could.</p>

<p>The Changer ran on past her, his face set, the rifle raised, his
boots hammering the metal deck above her.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda looked
down, her head dropping.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her eyes closed.</p>

<p>Horza... Kraiklyn... that geriatric Outworld minister on
Sorpen... no piece or image of the Changer, nothing and nobody the
man had ever been could have any desire to rescue
her.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle seemed to have hoped some pan-human
compassion would make Horza stop and save her, and so give the
Idiran a few precious extra moments to make his escape; but the
Idiran had made the same mistake about Horza that his whole species
had made about the Culture.&nbsp;&nbsp;They were not that soft
after all; humans could be just as hard and determined and
merciless as any Idiran, given the right encouragement...</p>

<p><em>I'm going to die</em>, she thought, and was almost more
surprised than terrified. <em>Here, now.&nbsp;&nbsp;After all
that's happened, all I've done.&nbsp;&nbsp;Die.&nbsp;&nbsp;Just
like that!</em></p>

<p>Her numb hand loosened slowly around the stanchion.</p>

<p>The footsteps above her stopped, returned; she looked up.</p>

<p>Horza's face was above her, staring down at her.</p>

<p>She hung there, twisting in the air, for an instant, while the
man looked into her eyes, the gun near his face.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza
glanced round, over the catwalk, where Xoxarle had gone.</p>

<p>'... help...' she croaked.</p>

<p>He knelt and, taking her hand, pulled her up.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Arm's
broken...' she choked, as he caught her by the neck of her jacket
and pulled her onto the surface of the suspended
gantry.&nbsp;&nbsp;She rolled over as he stood up.&nbsp;&nbsp;Foam
drifted down through the wavering light and dark of the huge,
echoing cavern, and flames cast momentary shadows when the lights
guttered.</p>

<p>'Thanks,' she coughed.</p>

<p>'That way?' Horza looked round, the way he had been heading, the
way Xoxarle had gone.&nbsp;&nbsp;She did her best to nod.</p>

<p>'Horza,' she said, 'let him go.'</p>

<p>Horza was already backing off.&nbsp;&nbsp;He shook his
head.&nbsp;&nbsp;'No,' he said, then turned and
ran.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda curled up, her numbed arm going to the
broken one; towards it, but not touching it.&nbsp;&nbsp;She coughed
and put her hand to her mouth, feeling inside,
spluttering.&nbsp;&nbsp;She spat out a tooth.</p>

<p>Horza crossed the catwalk.&nbsp;&nbsp;He felt calm
now.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle could delay him if he liked; he could even
let the Idiran get to the transit tube, then he would just step
into the tubeway and fire at the retreating end of the transit
capsule, or blast the power off properly and trap the Idiran: it
didn't matter.</p>

<p>He crossed the terrace and ran into the tunnel.</p>

<p>It led straight into the distance for over a
kilometre.&nbsp;&nbsp;The way to the transit tubes was off to the
right somewhere, but there were other doors and entrances, places
where Xoxarle could hide.</p>

<p>It was bright and dry in the tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;The lights
flickered only slightly, and the sprinkler system had remained
off.</p>

<p>He thought of looking at the floor only just in time.</p>

<p>He saw the drips of water and foam while he ran towards a pair
of doors which faced each other on either side of the
tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;The line of drips stopped there.</p>

<p>He was running too fast to stop; he ducked instead.</p>

<p>Xoxarle's fist flicked through the air, out from the left-hand
doorway, over the Changer's head.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza turned and
brought the gun to bear; Xoxarle stepped from the doorway and
kicked out.&nbsp;&nbsp;His foot caught the gun, sending its barrel
up into the Changer's face, slamming into Horza's mouth and nose
while the gun sprayed laser fire over the man's head into the
ceiling, bringing a hail of rock dust and splinters down over the
Idiran and the human.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle reached out while the
stunned man was staggering back.&nbsp;&nbsp;He took the gun,
tearing it from Horza's hands.&nbsp;&nbsp;He turned it round and
pointed it at Horza as the man steadied himself against the wall
with one hand, his mouth and nose bleeding.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle tore
the trigger guard from the gun.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Unaha-Closp raced through the control room, banked in the air,
flashed through the smoke and past the smashed doors, then darted
down the short corridor.&nbsp;&nbsp;It flew down the length of the
dormitory, between the swaying nets, through another short tunnel
and out onto the terrace.</p>

<p>There was wreckage everywhere.&nbsp;&nbsp;It saw Balveda on the
catwalk, sitting up, holding one shoulder with the other hand, then
putting her hand down to the floor of the
gantry.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp tore through the air towards her,
but just before it got to her, as her head was coming up to look at
it, the noise of laser fire came from the tunnel on the far side of
the cavern.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone banked again and accelerated.</p>

<br>
<br>


<p>Xoxarle pressed the trigger just as Unaha-Closp hit him from
behind; the gun hadn't even started to fire as Xoxarle was thrown
forward, down to the floor of the tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;He rolled over
as he fell, but the gun's muzzle staved into the rock, taking all
the Idiran's weight for a moment; the barrel snapped cleanly in
two.&nbsp;&nbsp;The drone stopped just short of
Horza.&nbsp;&nbsp;The man was lunging forward for the Idiran, who
was already recovering his balance and rearing up in front of
them.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp rushed forward again, diving then
zooming, attempting an uppercut like the one that had caught the
Idiran out once before.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle fended off the machine
with one swiping arm.&nbsp;&nbsp;Unaha-Closp bounced off the wall
like a rubber ball, and the Idiran swatted it once more, sending
the drone spinning back, dented and crippled, along the corridor
towards the cavern.</p>

<p>Horza dived forward.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle brought his fist down on
the human's head as he lunged.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Changer swerved, but
not fast enough; the glancing blow he received hit the side of his
head, and he crashed onto the floor, scraping along the side of the
wall and coming to rest in a doorway across the tunnel.</p>

<p>Sprinklers spat from the ceiling near where Horza's gun had
fired into it.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle rounded on the fallen human, who
was trying to get to his feet, his legs wobbly and unsure, arms
scrambling for purchase over the smooth rock walls.&nbsp;&nbsp;The
Idiran brought up his leg to stamp his foot into Horza's face, then
sighed and put his leg down again as the drone Unaha-Closp, riding
unevenly in the air, its casing dented, leaking smoke, wobbling as
it advanced, came slowly back up the tunnel towards the
Idiran.&nbsp;&nbsp;'... You animal ...' Unaha-Closp croaked, its
small voice broken and harsh.</p>

<p>Xoxarle reached out, grabbed the machine's front, raised it
easily in both hands over his head, over Horza's head&#151;the man
looked up, eyes unfocused&#151;then brought it down, scything
towards the man's skull.</p>

<p>Horza rolled, almost tiredly, to one side, and Xoxarle felt the
whimpering machine connect with Horza's head and
shoulder.&nbsp;&nbsp;The man fell, sprawling on the tunnel
floor.</p>

<p>He was still alive; one hand moved feebly to try to protect his
naked, bleeding head.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle turned, raised the
helpless drone high over the man's head once more.&nbsp;&nbsp;'And,
so...' he said quietly as he tensed his arms to bring the machine
down.</p>

<p>'Xoxarle!'</p>

<p>He looked up, between his upraised arms, while the drone
struggled weakly in his hands and the man at his feet moved one
hand slowly over his blood-matted hair.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle
grinned.</p>

<p>The woman Perosteck Balveda stood at the end of the tunnel, on
the terrace over the cavern.&nbsp;&nbsp;She was stooped, and her
face looked limp and worn.&nbsp;&nbsp;Her right arm dangled
awkwardly at her side, the hand hanging by her thigh turned
outwards.&nbsp;&nbsp;In her other hand her fist seemed closed
around something small which she was pointing at the
Idiran.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle had to look carefully to see what it
was.&nbsp;&nbsp;It resembled a gun: a gun made mostly of air; a gun
of lines, thin wires, hardly solid at all, more like a framework,
like a pencil outline somehow lifted from a page and filled out
just enough to grip.&nbsp;&nbsp;Xoxarle laughed and brought the
drone swooping down.</p>

<p>Balveda fired the gun; it sparkled briefly at the end of its
spindly barrel, like a small jewel caught in sunlight, and made the
faintest of coughing noises.</p>

<p>Before Unaha-Closp had been moved more than a half-metre through
the air towards Horza's head, Xoxarle's midriff lit up like the
sun.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Idiran's lower torso was blown apart, blasted
from his hips by a hundred tiny explosions.&nbsp;&nbsp;His chest,
arms and head were blown up and back, hitting the tunnel roof then
tumbling down again through the air, the arms slackening, the hands
opening.&nbsp;&nbsp;His belly, keratin plates ripped open, flooded
entrails onto the water-spattered floor of the tunnel as his whole
upper body bounced into the shallow puddles forming under the
artificial rain.&nbsp;&nbsp;What was left of his trunk section, the
heavy hips and the three body-thick legs, stayed standing for a few
seconds by themselves, while Unaha-Closp floated quietly to the
ceiling, and Horza lay still under the falling water, now colouring
in the puddles with purple and red as it washed his own and the
Idiran's blood away.</p>

<p>Xoxarle's torso lay motionless where it fell, two metres behind
where his legs still stood.&nbsp;&nbsp;Then the knees buckled
slowly, as though only reluctantly giving in to the pull of
gravity, and the heavy hips settled over the splayed
feet.&nbsp;&nbsp;Water splashed into the gory bowl of Xoxarle's
sliced open pelvis.</p>

<p>'Bala bala bala,' Unaha-Closp mumbled, stuck to the ceiling,
dripping water.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Bala labalabalabla... ha ha.'</p>

<p>Balveda kept the gun pointing at Xoxarle's broken
body.&nbsp;&nbsp;She walked slowly up the corridor, splashing
through the dark red water.</p>

<p>She stopped near Horza's feet and looked dispassionately at
Xoxarle's head and upper torso, lying still on the tunnel floor,
blood and internal organs spilling from the fallen giant's
chest.&nbsp;&nbsp;She sighted the gun and fired at the warrior's
massive head, blowing it from his shoulders and blasting shattered
pieces of keratin twenty metres up the tunnel.&nbsp;&nbsp;The blast
rocked her; the echoes sang in her ears.&nbsp;&nbsp;Finally, she
seemed to relax, shoulders drooping.&nbsp;&nbsp;She looked up at
the drone, floating against the roof.</p>

<p>'Here am are, downly upfloat, falling ceilingwards bala bala ha
ha...' Unaha-Closp said, and moved uncertainly.&nbsp;&nbsp;'So
there.&nbsp;&nbsp;Look, I am <em>finished</em>, I'm just... What's
my name?&nbsp;&nbsp;What's the time?&nbsp;&nbsp;Bala bala, hey the
ho.&nbsp;&nbsp;Water lots of.&nbsp;&nbsp;Downly
upmost.&nbsp;&nbsp;Ha ha and so on.'</p>

<p>Balveda knelt down by the fallen man.&nbsp;&nbsp;She put the gun
in a pocket and felt Horza's neck; he was still
alive.&nbsp;&nbsp;His face was in the water.&nbsp;&nbsp;She heaved
and pushed, trying to roll him over.&nbsp;&nbsp;His scalp oozed
blood.</p>

<p>'Drone,' she said, trying to stop the man from falling back into
the water again, 'help me with him.' She held Horza's arm with her
one good hand, grimacing with pain as she used her other shoulder
to roll him further over.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Unaha-Closp, damn you; help
me.'</p>

<p>'Bla bala bal.&nbsp;&nbsp;Ho the hey.&nbsp;&nbsp;Here am are, am
here are.&nbsp;&nbsp;How do you don't?&nbsp;&nbsp;Ceiling, roof,
inside outside.&nbsp;&nbsp;Ha ha bala bala,' the drone warbled,
still fast against the tunnel roof.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda finally got
Horza onto his back.&nbsp;&nbsp;The false rain fell on his gashed
face, cleaning the blood from his nose and mouth.&nbsp;&nbsp;One
eye, then the other, opened.</p>

<p>'Horza,' Balveda said, moving forward, so that her own head
blocked out the falling water and the overhead
light.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Changer's face was pale save for the thin
tendrils of blood leaking from mouth and nostrils.&nbsp;&nbsp;A red
tide came from the back and side of his head.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Horza?'
she said.</p>

<p>'You won,' Horza said, slurring the words, his voice
quiet.&nbsp;&nbsp;He closed his eyes.&nbsp;&nbsp;Balveda didn't
know what to say; she closed her own eyes, shook her head.</p>

<p>'Bala bala... the train now arriving at platform one...'</p>

<p>'... Drone,' Horza whispered, looking up, past Balveda's
head.&nbsp;&nbsp;She nodded.&nbsp;&nbsp;She watched his eyes move
back, trying to look over his own forehead.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Xoxarle...'
he whispered.&nbsp;&nbsp;'What happened?'</p>

<p>'I shot him,' Balveda said.</p>

<p>'... Bala bala throw your out arms come out come in, one more
once the same... Is there anybody in here?'</p>

<p>'With what?' Horza's voice was almost inaudible; she had to bend
closer to hear.&nbsp;&nbsp;She took the tiny gun from her
pocket.</p>

<p>'This,' she said.&nbsp;&nbsp;She opened her mouth, showing him
the hole where a back tooth had
been.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Memoryform.&nbsp;&nbsp;The gun was part of me;
looks like a real tooth.' She tried to smile.&nbsp;&nbsp;She
doubted the man could even see the gun.</p>

<p>He closed his eyes.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Clever,' he said
quietly.&nbsp;&nbsp;Blood flowed from his head, mingling with the
purple wash from Xoxarle's dismembered body.</p>

<p>'I'll get you back, Horza,' Balveda said.&nbsp;&nbsp;'I
promise.&nbsp;&nbsp;I'll take you back to the
ship.&nbsp;&nbsp;You'll be all right.&nbsp;&nbsp;I'll make
sure.&nbsp;&nbsp;You'll be fine.'</p>

<p>'Will you?' Horza said quietly, eyes closed.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Thanks,
Perosteck.'</p>

<p>'Thanks bala bala bala.&nbsp;&nbsp;Steckoper, Tsah-hor,
Aha-Un-Clops... Ho the hey, hey the ho, ho for all that, think
on.&nbsp;&nbsp;We apologise for any inconvenience
caused...&nbsp;&nbsp;What's the where's the how's the who where
when why how, and so...'</p>

<p>'Don't worry,' Balveda said.&nbsp;&nbsp;She reached out and
touched the man's wet face.&nbsp;&nbsp;Water washed off the back of
the Culture woman's head, down onto the Changer's
face.&nbsp;&nbsp;Horza's eyes opened again, flicking round, staring
at her, then back towards the collapsed trunk of the Idiran; next
up at the drone on the ceiling; finally around him, at the walls
and the water.&nbsp;&nbsp;He whispered something, not looking at
the woman.</p>

<p>'What?' Balveda said, bending closer as the man's eyes closed
again.</p>

<p>'Bala,' said the machine on the ceiling.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Bala bala
bala.&nbsp;&nbsp;Ha ha.&nbsp;&nbsp;Bala bala bala.'</p>

<p>'What a fool,' Horza said, quite clearly, though his voice was
fading as he lost consciousness, and his eyes stayed
closed.&nbsp;&nbsp;'What a bloody... stupid... fool.' He nodded his
head slightly; it didn't seem to hurt him.&nbsp;&nbsp;Splashes sent
red and purple blood back up from the water under his head and onto
his face, then washed it all away again.&nbsp;&nbsp;'The Jinmoti
of&#151;' the man muttered.</p>

<p>'What?' Balveda said again, bending closer still.</p>

<p>'Danatre skehellis,' Unaha-Closp announced from the ceiling, 'ro
vleh gra'ampt na zhire; sko tre genebellis ro binitshire, na'sko
voross amptfenir-an har.&nbsp;&nbsp;Bala.'</p>

<p>Suddenly the Changer's eyes were wide open, and on his face
there appeared a look of the utmost horror, an expression of such
helpless fear and terror that Balveda felt herself shiver, the
hairs on the back of her neck rising despite the water trying to
plaster them there.&nbsp;&nbsp;The man's hands came up suddenly and
grabbed her thin jacket with a terrible, clawing
grip.&nbsp;&nbsp;'My name!' he moaned, an anguish in his voice even
more awful than that on his face.&nbsp;&nbsp;'What's my
<em>name</em>?'</p>

<p>'Bala bala bala,' the drone murmured from the ceiling.</p>

<p>Balveda swallowed and felt tears sting behind her
eyelids.&nbsp;&nbsp;She touched one of those white, clutching hands
with her own.&nbsp;&nbsp;'It's Horza,' she said
gently.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Bora Horza Gobuchul.'</p>

<p>'Bala bala bala bala,' said the drone quietly,
sleepily.&nbsp;&nbsp;'Bala bala bala.'</p>

<p>The man's grip fell away; the terror ebbed from his
face.&nbsp;&nbsp;He relaxed, eyes closing again, mouth almost
smiling.</p>

<p>'Bala bala.'</p>

<p>'Ah yes...' Horza whispered.</p>

<p>'Bala.'</p>

<p>'... of course.'</p>

<p>'La.'</p>

<hr>
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide18.html">previous</a> | <a
href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> | <a href=
"slide20.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

