<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>A Time of Omens</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="omens.css">
</head>
<body>

<div class="center"><small><a href="slide7.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide9.html">next</a>
</small></div>
<hr>
<div class="left"><img alt="Section" src="section.jpg" height=
"771" width="201"></div>
<div class="left"><img alt="Section" src="section2.jpg" height=
"797" width="201"></div>
<h1 class="chap2">future</h1>
<br>
<p class="quote"><em>How then, you say, will I know when the omens are
fulfilled? When all the twisted strands of Time weave their final knot, you
will know. If you do not know, then you have such a measly knack for magic
that you should never have studied it in the first place.</em></p>
<div class="center"><p class="quote"><em><strong>The Pseudo-Iamblichus Scroll</em></strong></p>
</div>
<h1 class="chap2"><em>1.</em></h1>
<h2 class="chap2">The Queen of Golds</em></h2>
<h3 class="quote"><em>Arcodd, Summer 1116</em></h3>
<br>
<p class="noindent">&ldquo;Those brigga don&rsquo;t fool me none. I know a pretty
lass when I see one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The girl looked up from her bowl of stew to find the man
leaning, elbows splayed and his dirty face all drunken smile, onto
the table directly across from her. Around them the tavern fell
abruptly silent as the customers, all men except for one old woman
sucking a pint of bitter in a corner, turned to watch. Most
grinned.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s your name, wench?&rdquo; His breath stank of
bad teeth.</p>

<p>In the uncertain firelight the tavern room seemed to shrink to a
frieze of leering faces and the pounding of her heart.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I said, what&rsquo;s your name, slut?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He was leaning closer, red hair and beard, greasy, dabbed with
food, the stinking mouth twisting into a grin as he reached for her
with broad and dirty fingers. She wanted to scream but her throat
had turned stone-dry and solid.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Er, ah, well, I wouldn&rsquo;t touch her, truly I
wouldn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The man jerked up and swirled round to face the speaker, who had
come up so quietly that no one had noticed. He was old, with a
pronounced stoop, his hair whitish though touched with red in
places, and he had the most amazing pair of bags she&rsquo;d ever
seen under anyone&rsquo;s eyes, but her would-be molester shrank
back from him as though he&rsquo;d been a young warrior.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, now, Your Holiness, just a bit of fun.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not for her&mdash;no fun at all, I&rsquo;d say.
She&rsquo;s quite pale, you see. Er, ah, well, I&rsquo;d leave if I were
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>At that she noticed the two enormous dogs, half wolf from the
look of them, that stood by the priest&rsquo;s side with their lips
drawn back over large and perfect fangs. When they growled, the man
yelped and ran out the tavern door to the accompaniment of jeers
and catcalls. The priest turned to look at the other customers with
an infinite sadness in his blue eyes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Er, well, you&rsquo;re no better. If I hadn&rsquo;t come
in&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>The laughter stopped, and the men began to study the ground or
the tables or the wall, looking; at anything but his sad and
patient face. With a sigh the priest sat down, smoothing his long,
gray tunic under him, the dogs settling at his feet.</p>

<p>&ldquo;After you finish that stew, lass, you&rsquo;d best come
with me. You&rsquo;ve picked the worst tavern in all Arcodd for
your dinner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So it seems, Your Holiness,&rdquo; She was surprised that
she could speak at all. &ldquo;You have my humble and undying
thanks. May I stand you a tankard?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not so early in the afternoon, my thanks. I&rsquo;ll have a
drop of ale of an evening, but truly, these days, it doesn&rsquo;t
sit so well in, my stomach.&rdquo; He sighed, again. &ldquo;Er,
well, um, what is your name?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She debated, then decided, that lying to a priest and a rescuer
was beyond her. Besides, her ruse was torn already.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Carramaena, but call me Cam. Everyone
does&mdash;did&mdash;people who know me, I mean. I&rsquo;ve been,
trying to pass for a lad and calling myself Gwyl, but it
doesn&rsquo;t seem to be working,&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Um, well, it isn&rsquo;t, truly. Gwyl? The dark one?&rdquo; He
smiled in a burst of surprising charm. &ldquo;Doesn&rsquo;t suit
you. With your yellow hair and all. Now my name does suit me.
Perryn, it is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t seem foolish in the least.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, that&rsquo;s because you don&rsquo;t know me very
well. You probably never will, seeing as you must be going
somewhere in a great hurry if you&rsquo;d ride with only a lie for
company.&rdquo; He paused, frowning at the far wall. &ldquo;Have to
do somewhat about that, you traveling alone, I mean. Are you going
to eat that stew?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not. I&rsquo;m not hungry anymore, and
I&rsquo;ve already picked one roach out of it. Will the dogs want
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mayhap, but it&rsquo;ll make them sick. Come with
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When he got up and headed for the door, Carra grabbed her cloak
from the bench and hurried after, her head as high as she could
hold it as she passed the men by the fire. Outside, drowsy in the
hot spring sun, her horse stood tied to the hitching rail in front
of the round tavern. A pure-bred Western Hunter, he was a pale
buckskin gelding.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It was the horse that made me go in,&rdquo; Perryn said.
&ldquo;I wondered who&rsquo;d have a horse like that, you see. You
shouldn&rsquo;t just leave him tied up like that in this part of the
world. Um, well, he could get stolen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, he&rsquo;ll kick the demons out of anyone but me who
comes near him. I&rsquo;m the only person who could ever touch him,
much less ride him. That&rsquo;s why he&rsquo;s mine.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah. Your father give him to you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My elder brother.&rdquo; Try as she might to hide it,
bitterness crept into her voice and tightened it down.
&ldquo;He&rsquo;s the head of our clan now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah. Then you are noble-bom. I, er, um, rather thought
so.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She felt her cheeks burn with a blush.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Truly, you&rsquo;re not much of a liar, Carra. Well,
fetch your horse and come along. Do you like dogs?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I do. Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got a pair to give you at home. If they like
you, and I truly do think they will, they&rsquo;ll take care of you
on the road.&rdquo; He sighed in a profound melancholy.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got such a lot of them.
Cats, too. We always had cats, my wife and I. She&rsquo;s dead
now, you see. Died over the winter.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m so sorry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So am I. Well, I&rsquo;ll be joining her soon, I hope, if
Kerun wills it. He should. I really am getting on in years. No use
in outstaying your welcome, is there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Since Carra was only sixteen, she had no idea of what to say to
his melancholy and busied herself with untying her horse. He stood
staring blank-eyed up the street, as if he were talking to his god
in his mind, while the dogs wagged quietly beside him.</p>

<p>The priest&rsquo;s house lay just beyond the village. He pushed
open a gate in an earthen wall and led her into a muddy farmyard,
where chickens scratched in front of a big thatched roundhouse.
Cats and puppies lolled in every patch of shade under the pair of
apple trees, under a watering trough, under a battered old wagon.
With a cheerful halloo a stout, red-faced woman of about forty came
out the front door.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There you are, Da. Brought a visitor? You&rsquo;re just
in time for your dinner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good, and my thanks, Braema.&rdquo; The priest glanced at
Carra. &ldquo;My youngest daughter. She&rsquo;s the
only&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;well, er, ah, only truly human one
of the lot.&rdquo;</p>

<p>At that Braema laughed in gut-shaking amusement. Carra dutifully
smiled, suspecting some hoary family joke.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s lots of sliced ham and some lovely greens,
lass, so come right in. Oh, wait&mdash;your horse.&rdquo; She
turned in the door and bellowed. &ldquo;Nedd, come out here, will
you? Got a guest, and her horse needs water and some
shade.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In. a moment or so a young man slipped out of the door behind
her and. stood blinking in the sun. As slender and lithe as a
young cat, he was just about five feet tall, a good head shorter
than Carra, with hair as coppery red as a sunset, and a
pinched face dominated by two enormous green eyes. When he yawned,
his intensely pink tongue curled up like a cat&rsquo;s.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Braema&rsquo;s lad, my grandson,&rdquo;&rdquo; Perryn
said, with a long sigh. &ldquo;And, um, well, fairly typical of
the lot. Of my offspring, I mean.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With a duck of his head Nedd glided over and took the buckskin&rsquo;s reins. Carra reached out to stop him, but the gelding
lowered his head and allowed the boy to rub his ears without his
usual rolling eye and threat of teeth.</p>

<p>&ldquo;His name&rsquo;s Gwerlas.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The lad smiled, a flick of narrow lips, and led the gelding away
without so much as a glance in her direction. Gwer seemed so glad
to go that Carra felt a jealous stab.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now come in and eat.&rdquo; Braema waved Carra in. &ldquo;You
look like you&rsquo;ve ridden a long way, eh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Long enough, truly. I come from Drwloc.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All the way down there? Ye gods! And where are you going,
or may I ask?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo; For a moment Carra nearly
wept.</p>

<p>The priest and his daughter sat her down at a long plank table
in the sunny kitchen, scattered with drowsy cats, and loaded her up
a trencher with ham and greens and fresh-baked bread, the first
real meal she&rsquo;d had in days. After she stuffed herself, she
found herself talking, partly because she felt she owed them an
explanation, partly because it felt so good to talk to someone
sympathetic.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m the youngest of six, you see, three sons and three
daughters, and my eldest brother&rsquo;s head of the clan now, and
he&rsquo;s a miserly rotten beast, too. He gave
Maeylla&mdash;that&rsquo;s my oldest sister&mdash;a decent dowry,
but it wasn&rsquo;t anything for a bard to remember, I tell you,
and then Raeffa got a scraped-together mingy one. And now
it&rsquo;s my turn, and he doesn&rsquo;t want to spend on a dowry
at all, so he found this fat old lord with half his teeth gone
who&rsquo;ll marry me out of lust and ask for naught more, and
I&rsquo;d rather die than marry him, so I ran away.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And I should think so,&rdquo; Braema said with a firm nod
of her head. &ldquo;Do you think he&rsquo;s still chasing
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know, but I wager he is. I&rsquo;ve made
him furious, and he hates it so much when anyone crosses him, so
he&rsquo;s probably coming to give me the beating of my life just
on the principle of the thing, I&rsquo;ve got a good lead on him,
though. I worked it out with a friend of mine. I went to visit her
and her new husband, but I told my brother that I&rsquo;d stay a
fortnight, while she told her husband I&rsquo;d leave after an
eightnight. And in an eightnight leave I did, but I rode north, not
home, and my brother wouldn&rsquo;t even have suspected anything
till days and days later. So as long as I keep moving, he
can&rsquo;t possibly catch up to me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Um, well, I see.&rdquo; Perryn pursed his lips and sucked
a thoughtful tooth. &ldquo;I know how purse-proud noble-born kin
can be, truly. Mine always were.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, I see. I was thinking of going west.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;West?&rdquo; Braema leaned forward sharply.
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s nothing out there, lass, nothing at
all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not so sure of that. You hear things down in
Drwloc. From merchants, like.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The woman was staring at her in such puzzlement that Carra felt
her face burning with a blush.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You could starve out there!&rdquo; Braema sounded
indignant. &ldquo;Your fat lord would be better than
that!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You haven&rsquo;t seen him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When Braema opened her mouth to go on, her father silenced her
with a wave of one hand.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re hiding somewhat, lass. You&rsquo;re carrying
a child, aren&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How did you know? I only just realized myself!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can always tell. Sort of an, um,
well&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;trick of mine.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, so I am.&rdquo; She felt her eyes well tears.
&ldquo;And he&mdash;my lover, I mean&mdash;he&rsquo;s, well,
he&rsquo;s&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;One of the Westfolk!&rdquo; Braema&rsquo;s voice was all
breathy with shock. &ldquo;And he deserted you, I
suppose.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Naught of the sort! He said he&rsquo;d come back for me
before the winter rains, but he didn&rsquo;t know I
was&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;well, you know. And my brother
doesn&rsquo;t know, either, which is why he was trying to marry me
off, but I didn&rsquo;t dare tell him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;d have beaten you half to death, I
suppose.&rdquo; Braema sighed and shook her head. &ldquo;Do you
truly think you&rsquo;ve got a chance of finding this man of
yours?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. I hope so. He gave me a token, a
pendant.&rdquo; Lightly she touched the cool metal where it hung on
its chain under her shirt. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a rose on it, and
some elven words, and he said that any of his people would know it
was his.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Humph, and I wonder about the truth of that, I do! Easy
for the Westfolk to talk, but what they mean by
it&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s enough, Braema.&rdquo; Perryn cut her off
with a small wave of one hand. &ldquo;Can&rsquo;t meddle in someone
else&rsquo;s Wyrd, can you? If she wants to go west, west
she&rsquo;ll go. She seems to, er, well, know her own mind. But,
um, well, I want to give you those dogs.&rdquo; This to Carra.
&ldquo;Come out to the stable with me, will you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>The stables were round back and a good bit away from the house.
Out in front of the long wooden building Nedd was watching Gwerlas
drink from a bucket.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your Holiness? Most people think I&rsquo;m daft because I
want to ride after my Daralanteriel.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mayhap you are, but what choice do you have?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;None, truly. Not unless I want to get myself beaten first
and married off to Old Dung-heap second.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The dogs turned out to be a pair of males, more than half wolf,
maybe, with their long sharp faces and pricked ears, and just about
a year old. One was gray and glowering, named Thunder, and the
other a pale silver with a black streak down his back who answered
to Lightning. When the priest introduced them, they sniffed her
outstretched hand with a thoughtful wag of their tails.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They like you,&rdquo; Perryn announced. &ldquo;Think they
do, Nedd?&rdquo;</p>

<p>The boy nodded, considering.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to give them to Carra. She&rsquo;s riding
west, you see, and she&rsquo;ll need them along to protect
her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd nodded again and turned to slip back into the stables. He
didn&rsquo;t walk, exactly, so much as glide along from shadow to
shadow, there one minute, gone the next.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh, Your Holiness, can he talk?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not very well, truly. Only when he absolutely has to, and
then only a word or two. But he understands everything. Um, right,
that reminds me. I&rsquo;ve taught this pair to work to hand
signals, and I&rsquo;d best show you what they know. They&rsquo;ll
come to their names, of course.&rdquo; He squatted down and looked
at the dogs, who swiveled their heads to stare into his eyes.
&ldquo;You belong to Carra now. Go with her. Take care of
her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>For a long, long moment they kept a silent communion, while
Carra decided that contrary to all common sense, the dogs
understood exactly what he meant. Nedd came whistling out of the
stable. He was leading a nondescript bay gelding, laden with an old
saddle, a bedroll, a woodsman&rsquo;s ax, and a pair of bulging
saddlebags. Perryn rose, rubbing his face with one hand.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s this? You&rsquo;re going too?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd nodded, glancing this way and that around the
farmstead.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll have to ask Carra&rsquo;s
permission.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The boy swung his head around and looked at her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You want to come west with me? Look, if my brother
catches us, he&rsquo;ll hurt you. He might even kill
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd considered, then shrugged, turning to stare significantly
at his grandfather.</p>

<p>&ldquo;No use trying to keep someone who doesn&rsquo;t want to
stay, is there?&rdquo; the priest said. &ldquo;But you take care of
the lady. She&rsquo;s noble-born, you see. Don&rsquo;t cause her a
moment&rsquo;s trouble, or Kerun will be livid with you.
Understand?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd nodded a yes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well and good, then. Run up to the house, will you? I&rsquo;ll
wager your mam is packing up a bit of that ham and bread for Carra
to eat on the road.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd grinned and trotted off. Perryn turned to her with an
apologetic smile.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hope you don&rsquo;t mind him coming along. He
won&rsquo;t trouble you. Might even come in handy, because he likes
having someone to do things for. Poor lad, it makes him feel
useful, like. And he can show you how to work the dogs.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right, but here, won&rsquo;t his mother be furious
that he&rsquo;s
just&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;well&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;leaving
like this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, I doubt that. He&rsquo;s like me and his uncles. We
mostly come and go as we please, and there&rsquo;s no use in trying
to stop us.&rdquo; He sighed again, deeply. &ldquo;No use in it at
all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yet even so, they left by the back gate and circled round to hit
the west-running road out of sight of the house. Carra took the
lead, with the dogs padding along either just ahead or to one side
of her as the whim took them, while Nedd rode a length behind like
her servant, which he was now, she supposed, in his way. She only
hoped that she could take care of him properly, and the dogs, too,
though she suspected that they were feral enough to hunt their own
food if need be. She had a handful of coins, copper ones mostly,
stolen from her brother in lieu of her rightful dowry, but they
weren&rsquo;t going to last forever. On a sudden thought she turned
in the saddle and motioned Nedd up beside her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You must have heard tales about the Westfolk, too. That
they&rsquo;re very odd but kind to strangers?&rdquo;</p>

<p>The boy nodded, his hair glinting like metal in the strong
spring sun.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you think they truly are kind?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He grinned, shrugging to show his utter ignorance, but excited
nonetheless.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I hope they are, because I don&rsquo;t know how
we&rsquo;re going to find Dar without some help. He told me that he
wanders all over with his tribe and their horses, you see, but
I&rsquo;m not truly sure just how big this &lsquo;all over&rsquo;
is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;North with the summer. South with the rains.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He spoke so softly, so lightly, that she barely heard him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Did someone tell you that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded a yes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is that how the Westfolk travel? Well, it makes sense.
It&rsquo;s more than I&rsquo;ve had to go on before. But maybe we
should be riding south, then, to meet them as they come north. Or
due west. But they may have already passed us up, like, if they
left their winter homes early or suchlike.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd nodded, frowning.</p>

<p>&ldquo;So let&rsquo;s head north,&rdquo; Carra went on.
&ldquo;That way we&rsquo;ll either meet up with them or be in the
right place to wait for them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>For the rest of that day and on into the next one they traveled
through farm country, but although they stopped to talk with the
locals along the road, everyone heaped scorn on the very idea of
going off to look for the Westfolk. Arcodd province is still on the
very edge of the kingdom of Deverry, and in those days it was a
lonely sort of place, where little pockets of settled country
dotted a wilderness of grassland and mixed forests. And more
wilderness was all, or so they were told, that could possibly lie
to the west&mdash;except, of course, for the wandering clans of
the Westfolk, who were all thieves and ate snakes and made pacts
with demons and never washed and the gods only knew what else. By
the third day Carra was disheartened enough to start believing
them, but turning back meant her brother, a beating, and the
pig-breathed Lord Scraev. At night they camped out in copses near
the road, and here Nedd showed just how useful a person he was.
Besides insisting on tending the horses, he always found firewood
and food as well, hooking fish and snaring rabbits, grubbing around
to find sweet herbs and greens to supplement the bread her coin
bought them in villages.</p>

<p>In his silent way, he was good company, too, patient as he
taught her how to command the dogs with subtle hand gestures and a
few spoken words. Sleeping on the ground meant nothing to him; he
would roll up in a blanket with Thunder at his back and go out
while Carra was still tossing and turning, trying to sleep with a
patient Lightning at her feet, Although she was used to riding for
long hours at a time, either to visit her friends or to ride with
her brother&rsquo;s bunt, sleeping on the hard, damp ground was
something new, and she began to ache like fire after a few nights
of it, so badly that she began to worry about her unborn
child, still a tiny knot deep within her but as real to her
as Nedd and the dogs. When, then, on the fourth night they came to
a village that had an inn, she was died enough to consider spending
a few coins on lodging.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And a bath,&rdquo; she said to Nedd. &ldquo;A
proper hot bath with a bit of soap,&rdquo;</p>

<p>He merely shrugged.</p>

<p>From, outside the inn, didn&rsquo;t look like much: a low
roundhouse, heavily thatched, in the middle of a muddy fenced,
yard, but when she pushed open the gate and led her horse inside,
she could smell roasting chickens. The innkeep, a stout and greasy
little man, strolled out and looked her over suspiciously.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The common room&rsquo;s full,&rdquo; he announced.
&ldquo;Ain&rsquo;t got no private chambers.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Can we sleep in your stables?&rdquo; Carra gave up her
dream of a hot bath. &ldquo;Up in the hayloft, say?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Long as you don&rsquo;t go bringing no lantern up there.
Don&rsquo;t want no fire.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The hayloft turned out to be long and airy and well supplied
with loose hay, a better night&rsquo;s lodging, she suspected, than
the inn itself. After the horses were taken care of, Carra and
Nedd, with the dogs trotting busily behind, headed for the tavern.
In the half round of the common room, set off from the
innkeep&rsquo;s quarters by a wickerwork partition, were a couple
of wobbly tables. At one sat a gaggle of farmers, gossiping over
their ale; at the other, two men, both road-stained, both armed.
Carra stopped in the shadowy curve of the wall by the door; when
she snapped her fingers and pointed down, the dogs sat and Nedd
fell back a step or two. In the smoky light of a smoldering fire
she could see the pair fairly clearly: warriors, by the easy
arrogant way they sat, but their stained linen shirts bore no
blazons at the yokes or shoulder. One, blond and burly with a heavy
blond mustache, looked young; the other, sitting with his back to
her, was more slender, with wavy raven-dark hair. When the passing
innkeep threw a couple of handfuls of small sticks onto the fire,
it blazed with a flare of light, glinting on the pommel of the
knives that the men wore at their belt. Three distinctive little
knobs. Silver daggers, little better than criminals if indeed they
were better at all, or so she&rsquo;d always been told. Behind her
Nedd growled like one of the dogs.</p>

<p>&ldquo;True enough,&rdquo; she whispered. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s get
out of here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>But as she stepped back the burly blond saw her and raised a
dented tankard her way with a grin.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Here, lad, come on in and join us. Plenty of room at the
table.&rdquo; His voice sounded oddly decent for a man of his
sort.</p>

<p>She was about to make a polite refusal when the dark-haired
fellow slewed round on the bench to look her over with enormous
cornflower-blue eyes. He was clean-shaven and almost girlishly
handsome; in fact, she&rsquo;d never seen such a good-looking man
among her own people. As she thought about it, his chiseled
features reminded her of the Westfolk and even, because of his
coloring, of her Dar. He rose, swinging clear of the bench with
some of Nedd&rsquo;s catlike ease, making her a graceful bow, and
the wannth of his smile made her blush.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Lad, indeed!&rdquo; His voice was a soft tenor, marked
by a lilting accent that reminded her of the Westfolk as well.
&ldquo;Yraen, you&rsquo;re growing old and blind! My lady, if
you&rsquo;d care to join us, I swear on what honor I have left that
you&rsquo;re perfectly safe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The dogs were thumping their tails in greeting. When she glanced
at Nedd, she found him staring at the raven-haired stranger.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He looks decent enough to me,&rdquo; she whispered.</p>

<p>Nedd nodded with one of his eloquent shrugs, registering
surprise, perhaps, to find a man like this on the edge of nowhere.
Carra gestured the dogs up, and they all went over, but Nedd
insisted on sitting on the floor with Thunder and Lightning. She
settled herself in solitary comfort on one bench while the
raven-haired fellow went round to join his friend on the other.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My name&rsquo;s Rhodry,&rdquo; he said as he sat down.
&ldquo;And this is Yraen, for all that he&rsquo;s got a nickname
for a name.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen smiled in a rusty way.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My name is Carra, and this is Nedd, who&rsquo;s sort of
my servant but not really, and Thunder and Lightning.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The dogs thumped their tails; Nedd bobbed his head. The innkeep
came bustling over with a big basket of warm bread for the table
and a tankard of ale for her. He also brought news of roast
chickens, and while he and Yraen wrangled about how many
there&rsquo;d be and how much they&rsquo;d cost, Carra had a brief
chance to study the silver daggers, though most of her attention
went to Rhodry. It wasn&rsquo;t just because of his good looks; she
simply couldn&rsquo;t puzzle out how old he was. At times he would
grin and look no older than she; at others, melancholy would settle
into his eyes and play on his face like a fever, and it would seem
that he must be a hundred years old at the least, to have earned
such sadness.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Innkeep?&rdquo; Rhodry said. &ldquo;Bring some scraps for
the lady&rsquo;s dogs, will you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I will. We butchered a sheep yesterday. Plenty of spleen
and suchlike left.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra gave the man a copper for his trouble. Yraen drew his
dagger and began to cut the bread in rough chunks.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And where is my lady bound for?&rdquo; His voice was dark
and rough, but reassuringly normal all the same.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;um,
well&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;to the west, actually. To visit
kin.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen grinned and raised an eyebrow, but he handed her a chunk
of bread without comment. Even though Carra told herself that she
was daft to trust these men, she suddenly felt safe, and for the
first time in weeks. When Rhodry took some bread, she noticed that
he was wearing a ring, a flat silver band graved with roses. She
was startled enough to stare.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a nice bit of jewelry, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
Rhodry said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is, but forgive me if I was rude. I just happen to
have some jewelry with roses on it myself. I mean, they&rsquo;re
very differently done, and the metal&rsquo;s different, too, but it
just seemed odd&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; She felt suddenly
tongue-tied and let her voice trail away.</p>

<p>Rhodry passed Nedd the bread. For a few minutes they all ate in
an awkward silence until Carra felt she simply had to say
something.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where are you two going, if you don&rsquo;t mind me
asking, anyway?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Up north, Cengarn way,&rdquo; Yraen said.
&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve got a hire, you see, though he&rsquo;s
barricaded himself in a woodshed for the night. Doesn&rsquo;t trust
the innkeep, doesn&rsquo;t trust us, for all that he&rsquo;s hired
us as guards. Calls himself a merchant, but I&rsquo;ve got my
doubts, I have. However he earns his keep, he&rsquo;s a
rotten-tempered little bastard, and I&rsquo;m sick to my heart of
his ways.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your own temper at the moment lacks a certain sunny
sweetness itself.&rdquo; Rhodry was grinning. &ldquo;Our
Otho&rsquo;s carrying gems, and a lot of them, and it&rsquo;s
making him wary and even nastier than he usually is, which is
saying a great deal. But we took his hire because it may lead to
better things. I was thinking that maybe Gwerbret Cadmar up on the
border might have need of us. He&rsquo;s got a rough sort of rhan
to rule.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is that Cadmar of Cengarn?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is. I take it you&rsquo;ve heard of him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;well, a friend of
mine&rsquo;s mentioned Cengarn once or twice. It&rsquo;s to the
west of here, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;More to the north, maybe, but somewhat west. Think your
kin might have ridden that way?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They might have.&rdquo; She busied herself with brushing
imaginary crumbs off her shirt.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What did this man of yours do?&rdquo; Rhodry&rsquo;s
voice hovered between sympathy and a certain abstract anger.
&ldquo;Get you with child and then leave you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How did you know?&rdquo; She looked up, blushing hard,
feeling tears gathering.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not exactly a new story, lass.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But he said he&rsquo;d come back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They all do,&rdquo; Yraen murmured to his tankard.</p>

<p>&ldquo;But he gave me&mdash;&rdquo; She hesitated, her hand
half-consciously clutching at her shirt, where the pendant hung
hidden, &ldquo;Well, he gave me a token.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When Rhodry held out his hand, she debated for a long
moment.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;re not thieves, lass,&rdquo; Rhodry said, and so
gently that she believed him.</p>

<p>She reached round her neck to unclasp the chain and take the
token out. It was an enormous sapphire as blue as the winter sea,
set in a pendant of reddish-gold, some three inches across and
ornamented with golden roses in bas relief. When they saw it,
Rhodry whistled under his breath and Yraen swore aloud. Nedd
scooted a little closer to look.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ye gods!&rdquo; Yraen said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a good
thing you keep this hidden. It&rsquo;s worth a fortune.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A king&rsquo;s ransom, and I mean that literally.&rdquo;
Rhodry was studying it as closely as he could in the uncertain
light, and he muttered a few words in the language of the
Westfolk before he went on. &ldquo;Once this belonged to
Ranadar of the High Mountain, the last true king the Westfolk ever
had, and it&rsquo;s been passed down through his descendants for
over a thousand years. When your Dar&rsquo;s kin find out
he&rsquo;s given it to you, lass, they&rsquo;re going to beat him
black and blue.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know him? You must know him!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I do.&rdquo; Rhodry handed the jewel back.
&ldquo;Any man who knows the Westfolk knows Daralanteriel. Did he
tell you who he is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Busy with clasping the pendant, she shook her head no.</p>

<p>&ldquo;As much of a Marked Prince as the Westfolk will ever
have. The heir to what throne there is, which isn&rsquo;t much,
being as his kingdom lies in ruins in the far, far
west.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She started to laugh, a nervous giggle of sheer disbelief.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Kingdom?&rdquo; Yraen broke in. &ldquo;I never heard of
the Westfolk having any kingdom.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course you haven&rsquo;t.&rdquo; Rhodry suddenly
grinned. &ldquo;And that&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;ve never gotten
to know the Westfolk or listened to what they&rsquo;ve got to say.
A typical Round-ear, that&rsquo;s you, Yraen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re having one of your jests on me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not.&rdquo; But the way he was smiling made him
hard to believe. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the solemn truth.&rdquo;</p>

<p>To her horror Carra found that she couldn&rsquo;t stop giggling,
that her giggles were rising to an hysterical laugh. The dogs
whined, pressing close to her, nudging at her hands while Nedd
swung his head Rhodry&rsquo;s way and growled like a wolf. The
silver dagger seemed to notice him for the first time.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nedd, his name is?&rdquo; Rhodry spoke to Carra. &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t suppose he has an uncle or suchlike named
Perryn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;His grandfather, actually.&rdquo; At last she managed to
choke her laughter down enough to answer. &ldquo;A priest of
Kerun.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry sat stock-still, and in the dancing firelight it seemed
he&rsquo;d gone pale.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And what&rsquo;s so wrong with you?&rdquo; Yraen poked
him on the shoulder.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Naught.&rdquo; Rhodry turned, waving at the innkeep.
&ldquo;More ale, will you? A man could die of thirst in your
wretched tavern.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Not only did the man bring more ale but his wife trotted over
with roast fowl and greens and more bread, a feast to Carra after
her long weeks on the road, and to the silver daggers as well,
judging from the way they fell upon the meal. In the lack of
conversation Carra found herself studying Rhodry. His table manners
were those of a courtly man, one far more gracious than any lord
she&rsquo;d ever seen at her brother&rsquo;s table. Every now and
then she caught him looking her way with an expression that she
simply couldn&rsquo;t puzzle out. Sometimes he seemed afraid of
her, at others weary&mdash;she decided at length that in her
exhaustion she was imagining things, because she could think of no
reason that a battle-hardened stiver dagger would be afraid of one
tired lass, and her pregnant at that. Once she&rsquo;d eaten,
though, her exhaustion lifted enough for her to focus at last on
one of his earlier comments.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know Dar.&rdquo; She said it so abruptly that he
looked up, startled. &ldquo;Where is he? Will you tell
me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I knew for certain, I would, but I haven&rsquo;t seen
him in years, and he&rsquo;s off to the north with his alar&rsquo;s
herds somewhere, I suppose.&rdquo; Rhodry paused for a sip of ale.
&ldquo;Listen, lass, if you&rsquo;re with child, then you&rsquo;re
his wife. Do you realize that? Not some deserted woman, but his
wife. The Westfolk see things a good bit differently than Deverry
men.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The tears came, spilling down before she could stop them.
Whining, the dogs laid their heads in her lap. Without thinking she
threw her arms around Thunder and let him lick the tears away while
she wept. Dimly she was aware of Yraen talking, and of the sounds
of a bench being moved about. When at last she looked up, he was
gone and the innkeep with him, but Rhodry still sat across from
her, slouching onto one elbow and drinking his ale.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My apologies,&rdquo; she sniveled. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve just
been so frightened, wondering if he really would ever want to see
me again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, he will. He&rsquo;s a good lad, for all that
he&rsquo;s so young, and I think me you can trust him.&rdquo;
Rhodry grinned suddenly. &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;d say he&rsquo;s a
cursed sight more trustworthy than I was at his age, but that,
truly, wouldn&rsquo;t be saying much. If naught else, Carra, his
kin will take you in the moment you find them&mdash;ye gods, any
alar would! You don&rsquo;t truly realize it yet, do you? That
child you&rsquo;re carrying is as royal as any prince up in Dun
Deverry. You&rsquo;ve got the token to prove it, too. Don&rsquo;t
you worry, now. We&rsquo;ll find him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We. You&rsquo;ve just hired yourself a silver dagger to
escort you to your new home&mdash;well, once we get Otho to
Cengarn, but that&rsquo;s on the way and all.&rdquo; He looked
away, and he seemed as old as the rocks in the mountains, as weary
as the rivers themselves. &ldquo;Whether Yraen&rsquo;s daft enough
to ride with me, I don&rsquo;t know. For his sake, I hope he
isn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But I can&rsquo;t pay you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, if I needed paying, Dar&rsquo;s alar would see to it.
Here, you still look half out of your mind with fear.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s just all been so awful.&rdquo; She sniffed
hard, choking back tears. &ldquo;Realizing I was pregnant, and then
running away and wondering if maybe Dar had just up and left me
behind like men do. And then I met Nedd&rsquo;s grandfather, and
truly, that was strange enough on its own, and then we just stumble
in here like this, and here you are, telling me all these strange
things, and I&rsquo;ve never seen you before or anything.
It&rsquo;s so odd, finding someone who knows Dar, out of the blue
like this, that I&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; She paused,
blushing on the edge of calling him a liar.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Odd, truly, but not some bizarre coincidence. It&rsquo;s
my Wyrd, Carra, and maybe yours, too, but no man can say what
another&rsquo;s Wyrd may be. Wyrd, and the dweomer that Wyrd brings
with it&mdash;I can smell it all round us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You look frightened, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am. You&rsquo;re carrying my death with you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd, who&rsquo;d been close to asleep, snapped up his head to
stare. Carra tried to speak but could only stammer. Rhodry laughed,
a long berserker&rsquo;s howl, and pledged her with his
tankard.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t hold it against you, mind. I&rsquo;ve loved
many a woman in my day, but none as much as I love my lady Death. I
know what you&rsquo;re going to ask, Carra&mdash;I&rsquo;m drunk,
sure enough, but not so drunk that I&rsquo;m talking nonsense.
Indulge me, my lady, since I&rsquo;ve just pledged my life to you
and all that, and let me talk awhile. I&rsquo;ve lived a good bit
longer than you might think, and every now and then I get to
looking back, like old men will, and I can see now that I&rsquo;ve never
loved anyone as much as her. Once I thought I loved honor, but
honor&rsquo;s just another name for my lady Death, because sooner
or later, as sure as sure, a man&rsquo;s honor will lead him to her
bed.&rdquo; Abruptly he leaned onto the table. &ldquo;Do you
believe in sorcery, Carra? In the dweomer, and those who know its
ways?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, sort of. I mean, I wouldn&rsquo;t <em>know</em>, but you
hear all those things&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Some of them are true. I know it, you see. I know it deep
in my heart, and it&rsquo;s a harsh and bitter knowing in its
way.&rdquo; He gave her a lopsided grin that made him look like a
lad of twenty. &ldquo;Do you think I&rsquo;m mad?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not truly, but a bit daft&mdash;I can&rsquo;t deny
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re a practical sort of lass, and you&rsquo;ll
need to be.&rdquo; He finished the ale in his tankard, then
refilled it from the flagon with an unsteady hand.
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s only been one woman in my whole life that
I&rsquo;ve loved as much as I love the lady Death, but she loved
the dweomer more than me. It&rsquo;s enough to drive any man daft,
that. Be that as it may, she told me a prophecy once. Run where you
will, Rhodry, said she, but the dweomer will catch you in the end.
Or somewhat like that. It was years ago now, and I don&rsquo;t
quite remember her exact words. But I do remember how I felt while
she was speaking, that she was telling me the truth and naught
more, and somehow I knew that when the time came and my Wyrd sprang
upon me, I&rsquo;d feel its claws sink deep, and I&rsquo;d know that my
lady Death was getting ready to accept me at last for the true
lover I&rsquo;ve been, all these long years. And while you were
telling me your tale, I felt those claws bite. Soon I&rsquo;ll lie
with her at last, though it&rsquo;s a cold and narrow bed
we&rsquo;ll share, my lady and me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd was asleep in the straw with the dogs. In the hearth the
fire was dying down, throwing a cloak of shadows over
Rhodry&rsquo;s face. With a wrench of will Carra got up and went to
the hearth to put on more wood. She felt so cold at heart that she
wanted the heat as much as the light. As the fire blazed up, she
heard him moving behind her and turned just as he knelt in the
straw at her feet.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will you take me into your service, my lady?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? Of course I will. I mean, I don&rsquo;t have a lot
of choice, do I? Since you know Dar and all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A very practical lass.&rdquo; He grinned at her and rose,
dusting off the knees of his filthy brigga as if it would make a
difference. &ldquo;Good. Nedd! Wake up! Escort your lady to her
elegant chambers, will you? And make sure you stand a good guard
tonight, because I feel trouble riding for all of us with an army
at its back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Drunk as he was, he made her a graceful bow, then wove his way
out of the tavern room. Nedd got up, signaling to the dogs to join
him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What do you think of that silver dagger, Nedd? Do you
like him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd nodded his head yes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Even though he&rsquo;s half-mad?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd pursed his lips and thought. Finally he shrugged the
question away and went to open the door for her with a clumsy
imitation of Rhodry&rsquo;s bow. As she followed him out to the
stables, Carra was both thinking that she&rsquo;d never wanted to
be a queen and wishing that she felt more like one.</p>

<p>Early on the morrow Yraen woke them by the simple expedient of
standing under the hayloft and yelling. As they all walked back to
the tavern for breakfast, he announced that he was riding north
with them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Against my better judgment, I might add. First we take on
this cursed little silversmith, and now our Rhodry starts babbling
about Wyrd and dweomer and prophecies and the gods only know what
else! He&rsquo;s mad, if you ask me, as daft as a bard, and he
drinks harder than any man I&rsquo;ve ever seen, and that&rsquo;s a
fair bit, if you take my meaning, not that he shows his drink the
way an ordinary man would, but anyway, I know blasted well I should
be riding back east and finding some other hire, but when he gets
to talking&mdash;&rdquo; He shook his head like a baffled bear.
&ldquo;So I&rsquo;m coming along, for all that he warned me
I&rsquo;ll probably die if I do. I must be as daft as he
is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In the morning light Carra had the chance for a good look at
him. He was a handsome man, Yraen, at least in the abstract, with
regular features and a mane of thick golden hair to match his
mustaches, but his ice-blue eyes were as cold and hard as the iron
of the joke that stood him for a name. The dogs and Nedd watched
him with a cold suspicion of their own.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Have you known Rhodry long?&rdquo; Carra said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve ridden together this four years
now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know, neither of you seem like the sort of men who
usually turn into silver daggers.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I suppose you mean that well.&rdquo; Yraen was scowling,
but in an oddly abstract way. &ldquo;Look, my lady, no offense and
all that, but asking a silver dagger questions isn&rsquo;t such a
pleasant thing&mdash;for both sides, if you take my
meaning.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Since she did, Carra held her tongue against a rising tide of
curiosity. Inside the tavern room Rhodry was sitting cross-legged
on the floor under a window, shaving with a long steel razor and a
bit of mirror propped against the wall.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Be done straightaway,&rdquo; Rhodry said. &ldquo;Yraen,
get the lady some bread and milk, will you? The innkeep&rsquo;s
drunk in his kitchen again, and she&rsquo;s got to keep up her
strength and all that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With a growl like a dog, however, Nedd insisted on being the one
to wait upon his lady.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been thinking,&rdquo; Yraen said abruptly. &ldquo;If
the point of this daft adventure is finding our lady her man, why
don&rsquo;t we just ride straight west?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re forgetting Otho.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True enough, and that&rsquo;s my point. I want to forget
Otho. Can&rsquo;t we give him his coin back?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We still couldn&rsquo;t just ride west. The grasslands
are huge, and there aren&rsquo;t any roads, and we could wander out
there for months till we starved to death.&rdquo; Still a bit damp,
Rhodry joined them at table just as Nedd and the bleary innkeep
appeared with bread and bacon. &ldquo;Cadmar of Cengarn buys horses
from the Westfolk, and so we&rsquo;re bound to find some of the
People there&mdash;well, they&rsquo;ll show up sooner or later,
anyway. And then we can pass the message along, that Dar&rsquo;s
wife is waiting for him under the gwerbret&rsquo;s
protection.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sounds too easy. You&rsquo;re hiding somewhat,
Rhodry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not. I&rsquo;ve got no idea, none at all, of
what might happen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then what&rsquo;s all this babbling about Wyrd and
dweomer?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry shrugged, tearing bread with his long and graceful
fingers.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I knew more, I&rsquo;d tell you more.&rdquo; He looked
up with a sunny and inappropriate grin hovering round his mouth.
&ldquo;But that&rsquo;s why I warned you earlier. Leave Otho if you
want&mdash;leave us all. Ride east, and don&rsquo;t give me or mine
another thought.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen merely snarled and speared a chunk of bacon with an
expensive-looking table dagger. At that point Carra heard someone
swearing and cursing at the innkeep. The dogs laid back long ears
and swung their heads toward the sound as the voice rose into a
veritable litany of oaths, a bard&rsquo;s memory chain of venom, a
lexicon of filth. Rhodry jumped up and yelled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hold your
tongue! There&rsquo;s a lady present.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Snorting
inarticulately under his breath a man came stumping into the room.
He was only about five feet tall, but built as thickly and strongly
as a miniature blacksmith, though his walk was stiff and slow.
Since his hair and long beard were snow-white, it might have been
mere age that was stiffening him, but from Rhodry&rsquo;s talk of
the night before Carra suspected that his heavy leather jerkin hid
sewn jewels. He was also wearing a short sword at one hip and a
long knife at the other.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you yell at me, you misbegotten silver
dagger,&rdquo; Otho said, but levelly enough. &ldquo;The day I take
orders from a cursed elf is the day I curl my toes to heaven and
gasp my last. I&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>He saw Carra and stopped, his mouth slacking, his eyes misting
with tears.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My lady,&rdquo; he whispered &ldquo;Oh! My
lady.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He knelt before her and grabbed her hand to kiss it like a
courtier. Carra sat stunned while Rhodry and Yraen goggled. All at
once Otho blushed scarlet, jumped to his feet, and made a noisy
show of blowing his nose on a bit of old rag.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh, well now,&rdquo; Otho snapped. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t
know what came over me, like, lass. My apologies. Thought you were
someone else, just for a minute there. Humph. Well. Forgive me,
will you? Just going outside.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He rushed out before anyone could say a word, leaving all of
them stunned and silent for a good couple of minutes. Finally Yraen
sighed with an explosive puff of breath.</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right, Rhodry lad. Dweomer it is, and Wyrd, too, for
all I know about it. I&rsquo;m not arguing with you
anymore.&rdquo;</p>

<p>After Rhodry settled up with the innkeep, they rode out, heading
straight north on the hard-packed dirt road that would, or so the
villagers promised, eventually lead them to Cengarn and Gwerbret
Cadmar. The road here ran through farms, stretching pale gold with
the ripening crop of winter wheat, but to the north, like a smudge
of storm clouds, hung a dark line of hills and forests. All morning the line swelled, and the land rose
steadily toward it, till by the time they stopped to rest the
horses and eat their midday meal, they could see waves and billows
of land and trees at the horizon.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How are you faring, lass?&rdquo; Otho asked as he helped
her dismount. &ldquo;Our Rhodry tells me you&rsquo;re with
child.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m perfectly fine. You don&rsquo;t need to
hover over me, you know. I&rsquo;m not very far along at
all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you say so. I just wish we had a woman of the People
with us someone who knew about these female matters.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m doing splendidly.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yet, when Carra sat down in a soft patch of grass, she was
surprised at how good it felt to be out of the saddle and still.
She&rsquo;d learned to ride at three, clinging to her
brother&rsquo;s pony, spent half her life riding, but now she found
herself tired after a morning in the saddle. She decided that she
hated being pregnant, married or not. Thunder and Lightning lopped
down on either side of her with vast canine sighs. When Nedd
hurried, off to fetch her water and food, Otho sat down as if on.
guard.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I&rsquo;m truly a queen now,&rdquo; she said,
&ldquo;the dogs must be my men at arms, and Nedd my equerry. Do
you want to be my high councillor, Otho? I wonder if I&rsquo;ll
get any serving women; maybe we should have taken
some of his holiness&rsquo;s cats along for that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otho frowned in drought, pretending to take the game
seriously.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, Your Grace,&rdquo; he said at last.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather be your chief craftsman, in charge of
building your great hall, like.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Truly, the one we&rsquo;ve got now is rather
drafty.&rdquo; She waved one arm, round at the scenery. &ldquo;Let
me see, who&rsquo;ll be councillor. Well, it can&rsquo;t be Rhodry,
because he&rsquo;s daft. I know&mdash;I need a sorcerer! An aged
sorcerer like in the tales. Aren&rsquo;t there tales like that?
About marvelous dweomermasters who turn up just when you need
them?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otho turned a little pale, She could have sworn that he was
terrified, but she couldn&rsquo;t imagine why. Suddenly troubled
herself, she looked up at the sky.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you see that bird circling up there?&rdquo; She
pointed to a distant black shape. &ldquo;Is it a raven?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Looks like it. Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been seeing it all morning, that&rsquo;s all. Oh,
I&rsquo;m just being silly. Of course there&rsquo;s lots of
ravens&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; She let her voice trail
away, because Otho was staring up, shading his deep-pouched eyes
with one hand, and within the welter of dirty beard his mouth was
set and grim.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s so wrong?&rdquo; Rhodry strolled over, a
chunk of cheese in his hand.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe naught,&rdquo; Otho said. &ldquo;But that&rsquo;s
one blasted big raven, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Just as he spoke, the bird broke and flew, flapping with a harsh
cry off to the west, just as if it knew it had been spotted. Otho
tossed his head to shake the sun from his eyes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You a good hand with a hunting bow, silver dagger?
You&rsquo;re the one who used to ride with the Westfolk.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True spoken, and my heart yearns for a longbow
now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Suddenly cold, Carra stood up just as Nedd and Yraen hurried
over. &ldquo;Was there somewhat strange about that raven?&rdquo; she
said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe. You&rsquo;ve got sharp eyes, lass, and I think me
you&rsquo;re going to need them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wow, wait.&rdquo; Yraen sounded exasperated. &ldquo;A
bird&rsquo;s a bird, big or not.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Unless it&rsquo;s a sorcerer.&rdquo; Rhodry grinned at him.
&ldquo;What would you say if I told you that some dweomermen can
turn themselves into birds and fly?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;d say that you were even dafter than I
thought.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then I won&rsquo;t tell you. It&rsquo;s still not too
late for you to go back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will you hold your tongue about that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well and good, then, because you&rsquo;ve been warned
three times now, and that&rsquo;s all that the laws and the gods
can ask of me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That afternoon, when they rode on north, Carra kept a nervous
watch for the raven, but she saw only normal birds of several
kinds, flying about on some avian business. Every time she saw a
raven or a crow, she would tell herself that Rhodry&rsquo;s talk of
shape-changers was his madness speaking at worst or some daft jest
at best.</p>

<p>The land kept rising, and the road turned snaky, winding through
the low places and crossing a couple of small streams. Just at
sunset they topped a low rise and saw, some two or three miles
ahead, a wild forest spreading out across hill and valley. Between
them and the verge, as dark as shadows, stood a village huddling
behind a staked palisade. Yraen muttered something foul under his
breath.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t like the looks of that, Rhodry. That
wall&rsquo;s new built.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So it is. We&rsquo;d best hurry before they shut us out
for the night.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In spite of the fortifications, the village was hospitable
enough. Although Carra was expecting the farmers to stare at Otho
or at least comment on his small stature, they acted as if he were
nothing out of the ordinary at all. The blacksmith let them stable
their horses in his shed, and a farm wife was glad to feed them for
a few coppers and let them sleep in her hayloft for a couple more.
Half the village crowded into her house to talk to the strangers,
too, and warn them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Bandits on the roads,&rdquo; said the blacksmith.
&ldquo;Never had bandits round here before. We sent a lad off to
Gwerbret Cadmar to beg for help, and his grace sent word back that
he was trying his best to wipe the scum out. Told us we&rsquo;d
better put up some kind of wall until he did.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sounds like we might find a hire in Cengarn,&rdquo;
Rhodry said. &ldquo;He might need extra men.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Most like.&rdquo; The blacksmith paused, looking Carra
over. &ldquo;What are you doing on the roads, lass?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra opened her mouth to blurt the truth, but Rhodry got in
first.</p>

<p>&ldquo;She rides with me,&rdquo; he snarled, and quite
believably. &ldquo;Anything wrong with that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Since I&rsquo;m not her father, I don&rsquo;t have a word
to say about it, lad. Now let&rsquo;s not have any trouble,
like.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Save it for the bandits, Rhodry,&rdquo; Yraen put in with
a sigh. &ldquo;How wide is the forest, anyway? Traveling from south
to north, I mean.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, let&rsquo;s see.&rdquo; The blacksmith rubbed his
chin. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve never been north, myself. But it stretches
a fair ways. Then you come to some more farming country, and then
forest again. Cengarn&rsquo;s right up in the hills. Lot of trade
comes through Cengarn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Trade?&rdquo; Carra said, startled. &ldquo;With the
Westfolk?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Them, too, lass.&rdquo; The blacksmith gave Otho a
conspiratorial wink. &ldquo;I take it she&rsquo;s never ridden our
way before. I think the lass is in for a surprise or
two.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The hayloft turned out to be quite big enough for all of them,
though Nedd insisted on piling up a barrier of hay to give Carra a
bit of privacy in one curve of the wall. Before she went to this
improvised bower, she asked Rhodry outright why he&rsquo;d lied to
the blacksmith.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Because the truth could be dangerous, that&rsquo;s why.
Bandits have been known to hold important people for
ransom.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Important&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Carra, believe me. The Westfolk would hand over every
fine horse they own to ransom Dar&rsquo;s wife and heir, to say
naught of that bit of jewelry you&rsquo;re carrying. From now on,
just pretend you ran off with me. It&rsquo;s perfectly
believable.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The vanity of the man!&rdquo; Otho said. &ldquo;But women
do stupid things sometimes, sure enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And men are the soul of tact?&rdquo; Carra snapped.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not like you really did run off with Rhodry. This
man of yours couldn&rsquo;t be any worse, even if he is an
elf.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Lightning picked up her mood and growled. At the sound Thunder
swung his head around and bared teeth.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My apologies,&rdquo; Otho said, and quickly. &ldquo;No
offense meant.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra decided that as men at arms went, the dogs had much to
recommend them.</p>

<p>In the morning, when they rode out, Rhodry and Yraen held a last
conference with the blacksmith, then decided to wear the mail
shirts they&rsquo;d been carrying in their saddlebags. Much to
Carra&rsquo;s surprise, Otho produced one as well. As they followed
the road into the forest, Nedd put the dogs on alert with a few
hand signals; their noses would provide the best warning they could
have against possible ambushes. Although she tried to keep her
courage up, a few hours of this dangerous riding brought Carra an
acute case of nerves. Every flicker of movement in the underbrush,
every ripple of wind in the trees, every distant crack of a twig or
hammer of a woodpecker, made her flinch.</p>

<p>Rhodry and Yraen rode in silence, as alert as the dogs. When
they finally came clear of the forest, just after noon, she offered
up a prayer of thanks to the Goddess. Yet, paradoxically enough, it
was out in the open farmlands that the reality of their danger
struck her like a blow across the face. Thanks to heavy cutting by
the locals, the trees ended in a welter of stumps just at the edge
of a broad valley. As they jogged their horses out into the open
air, the dogs growled and threw up their heads to sniff the sudden
gust of burning that greeted them. When Carra looked up, she could
see a lazy drift of smoke, yellowing the sky. Circling up high flew
the raven. Yraen swore&mdash;he&rsquo;d seen it, too. Rhodry, oddly
enough, started singing, just a few lines of some looping melody in
the language of the Westfolk.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Would that I had my good yew bow to speed an arrow to your
lying heart,&rdquo; he translated. &ldquo;So your blood could water
the tree of my revenge&mdash;but that bit isn&rsquo;t really to the
point, being as that cursed bird hasn&rsquo;t done anything to us
yet. I suspect it of having plans. What do you think,
Otho?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think we should turn back, that&rsquo;s
what.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The raven headed off west and disappeared into the bright sun
beyond the smoke.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Normally I&rsquo;d agree, but there&rsquo;s a farmstead
burning over there.&rdquo; Rhodry rose in his stirrups and squinted
across the valley. &ldquo;Somebody might be still alive.&rdquo;</p>

<p>But the gods weren&rsquo;t so kind as that. At a fast jog they
cut across the fields, the dogs racing to keep up, and reached the
farmstead to find the fire burning itself out in a smolder of
smoking thatch and glowing embers. Just at the road lay the corpse
of a woman, her head half cut from her shoulders, in a blackening
pool of blood. She lay on her back, her arms thrown akimbo, her
stomach swollen with a late pregnancy.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Get back!&rdquo; Rhodry turned in his saddle and yelled
at Carra. &ldquo;Get back with the dogs!&rdquo;</p>

<p>She wheeled her horse around, but it was too late. Mixed with
the smoke hung a sweet scent, much too much like burnt meat. She
pulled Gwerlas up after a few lengths, dismounted as fast as she
could, and vomited into the long grass. Sick, cold, and shaking,
she wiped her mouth on a pull of grass and got up, staggering back
to her horse, just as the two dogs reached her. Whining, they
crowded close. She let her hands rest on their necks while she
stared at the sky and resolutely tried to put the sight of the
murdered woman out of her mind. It was impossible.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There, there, lass.&rdquo; It was Otho, and his voice was
full of soft concern. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll come right in a
moment.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When she tried to answer the words stuck like lumps of vomit in
her throat. Finally she decided that she&rsquo;d have to face what
needed facing and turned to look at the distant village. She could
just see Rhodry and Yraen circling round the burning, with Nedd
close behind them. She realized suddenly that if there were trapped
survivors, the dogs would find them. She snapped her fingers and
pointed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nedd. Go to Nedd.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They bounded off.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, well,&rdquo; Carra went on. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s still
better than marrying Lord Scraev. I&rsquo;ll tell you about him
sometime, Otho. You&rsquo;ll laugh and laugh.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Her voice sounded so weak and shaky to her own ears that she
nearly wept. Otho laid a surprisingly gentle hand on her shoulder.
&ldquo;Tears help, lass.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t weep. I&rsquo;m a queen now. Sort of,
anyway. The queens in all the old tales face this sort of thing
with proud sneers or maybe a supernatural calm. Like
what&rsquo;s-her-name, King Maryn&rsquo;s wife, when her enemies
were accusing her of adultery and stuff.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otho&rsquo;s face turned pale and oddly blank.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Haven&rsquo;t you heard that old story? Bellyra, that was
it, and she stared them ail down till her witness could get there
and keep them from killing her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Many a time and from many a bard.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know, he was a smith like you, wasn&rsquo;t he? I
think that&rsquo;s the way the tale ran. He was her jeweler or
suchlike.&rdquo; Carra forced a smile. &ldquo;And she wasn&rsquo;t
killed, and so I&rsquo;ll just take that as a good omen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now listen, lass, things look dark. I won&rsquo;t lie to
you. But for all that I love to slang him, Rhodry ap Devaberiel&rsquo;s
the best swordsman in this kingdom and points beyond as well, and
young Yraen&rsquo;s his match. We&rsquo;ll get you through to
Cengarn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shouldn&rsquo;t we turn back?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, the raiders left plenty of tracks. Didn&rsquo;t
seem to see any reason why they should cover them, like, the
arrogant bastards. I&rsquo;d say they&rsquo;re heading south right
now. No use in riding after them, is there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, Goddess, I wish Dar were here!
I&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;hold a bit. Did you say that
Rhodry&rsquo;s father is one of the Westfolk? I mean, with that
name&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He couldn&rsquo;t be anything but an elf, truly.
That&rsquo;s what I said, all right, but I&rsquo;m not saying another word
about it. Rhodry&rsquo;s affair, not mine.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In a few minutes the other men, came back, Rhodry and Yraen
grim, shaking their heads, Nedd dead-pale and sweating, the dogs
slinking, all limp tails and ears., When they reached the body
of the dead woman, Rhodry sent the others on ahead, then knelt down
beside it. Carra turned her back on him and took a deep gulp of
air.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are there more people dead?&rdquo; she
said, to Yraen.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There are. Not one thing we can do for the poor
bastards. Three dead men, one lad of maybe fifteen. That woman we
saw first. And the child she was carrying, of course.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s all? I mean, a farm this big&mdash;usually
there&rsquo;s a couple of families. working it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know.&rdquo; Yraen, muttered something foul under his breath
before he went on. &ldquo;I wonder if these bandits maybe took the
other women and the children with them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;re not close enough to the coast for
that.&rdquo; Rhodry joined them. &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t make
sense.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; Carra broke in. &ldquo;What are you
talking about?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Slaves for the Bardek trade. But the bandits would have
to get them all the way down to the sea, avoiding the Westfolk and
Deverry men alike on the way. Can&rsquo;t see them
bothering.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well.&rdquo; Yraen rubbed the side of his face with a
gauntleted hand. &ldquo;They might have wanted the women
for&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hold your tongue!&rdquo; Rhodry hit him on the shoulder.
&ldquo;Look what I found in the dead woman&rsquo;s fingers. She
must have grabbed her attacker or suchlike.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He held out a tuft of straw-colored hair, each coarse strand
about a foot long.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Looks like horse hair to me,&rdquo; Yraen said.</p>

<p>Nedd
sniffed it, then shook his head in a vigorous no.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There
weren&rsquo;t any hoofprints anywhere near her, but there were boot
prints, so I think I&rsquo;ll side with Nedd.&rdquo; Rhodry rubbed
the strands between thumb and forefinger. &ldquo;The fellow might
have packed his hair with lime, like the High King does&mdash;the
old Dawntime way, I mean. It makes your hair turn to straw like
this.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, and I suppose you&rsquo;ve been close enough to the
king to tell,&rdquo; Yraen muttered.</p>

<p>Rhodry flashed a brief grin, shot through with weariness.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s get out of here.&rdquo;
Nedd spoke so rarely
that all of them jumped and swirled round to face him. Although he
was still pale, his mouth was set in a tight line, and his eyes
burned with an expression that Carra could only call fierce.
&ldquo;Tell the gwerbret. We&rsquo;ve got to.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So we should.&rdquo; Rhodry glanced at Otho. &ldquo;Looks
like they headed south, anyway.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So I told our lady. Can&rsquo;t turn back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m on for the ride.&rdquo; Carra thought of ancient queens
and forced her voice steady. &ldquo;I say we get to the gwerbret as
fast as ever we can.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Done, then.&rdquo; Rhodry looked up with a toss of his
head. &ldquo;Nedd, can you and Carra each carry one of the dogs?
You can sung them over the front of your saddles, if they&rsquo;ll
allow it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nedd nodded his head to indicate that they would.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. We want to make speed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That night when they camped, Rhodry and Yraen set a guard with
the dogs to help them. It became their pattern: rise early, tend
the horses, then ride hard all day, making a late camp and a
guarded one, especially once they reached the second stretch of
forest, where no one slept much. The dogs were especially nervous,
whining and growling, turning their heads this way and that as they
rode, When they were allowed down they would trot round and round
the horses and look up, every now and then, to growl or bark at the
sky. Carra wondered if the raven were following them, somewhere
above the sheltering trees. As they traveled steadily north, the
land kept rising, and it turned rocky, too, with huge boulders
pushing their way through the earth and stunting the black and
twisted pines. The muddy track they were following wound and
switched back and. forth through the jagged hills until Carra
wondered if they&rsquo;d ever reach Cengarn.</p>

<p>Finally, though, on the third day after they&rsquo;d found the
ravaged village, they reached a road made of felled trees, trimmed
into logs and half-buried, side by side in the dirt. At its
abrupt beginning stood a stone marker carved with a
sunburst and a couple of lines of lettering. Carra was surprised to
learn that Rhodry could read.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, we&rsquo;re not far now, twenty miles from
Cadmar&rsquo;s city.&rdquo; He laid one finger on the carved sun.
&ldquo;This is his device.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The country here was broken, tableland. On the flat the pine
forest grew all tangled round with ancient underbrush, like a
hedge on either side of the road, only to break suddenly and tumble
down a small gulch in a spill of green to reveal huge boulders,
heaped and tumbled like a giant&rsquo;s toys. When the sunlight was
falling in long and dusty-gold slants through the trees, the road
flattened out and straightened. As they traveled along at a steady
walk, Carra heard a distant noise ahead of them, went stiff with
fear, then realized that it was the sound of a river, racing and
tumbling over rock, As the road snaked west, at the end of a
leafy tunnel they could see both the river and a blessed token
that some kind of human presence lay close at hand. On either side
the riverbank had been cleared of trees and underbrush; the rocks
out in the water itself had been hauled around and arranged to
floor a level if deep-looking ford. But while they were still in
the forest&rsquo;s shelter, Rhodry threw up his hand for a
halt.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s wrong?&rdquo; Carra said. &ldquo;Can&rsquo;t
we camp here? I&rsquo;d be so glad to see the sky.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All at once the dogs began growling and squirming so badly that
neither Carra nor Nedd could keep them on the saddle. They
slithered down and rushed to the head of the line, bristling and
snarling on the edge of barks. At their signal Rhodry began yelling
at Carra and Nedd to get back into the forest. In a swirl of
confusion they did just that, but as Carra looked up reflexively at
the sky, she saw the raven flap away. Whistling and yelling, Nedd
got the dogs to come to him, but they kept growling. Up ahead
Rhodry, Yraen, and Otho peered across the river into the forest on
the other side. Nothing moved. It was dead-silent, not the chirp of
a bird, not the rustle of a squirrel.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ill-omened places, fords,&rdquo; Yraen remarked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;So they are.&rdquo; Rhodry rose in the stirrups and
stared as if he were counting every distant tree, &ldquo;Think
there&rsquo;s someone waiting on the other side?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The dogs think there is,&rdquo; Otho put in. &ldquo;I say
we ride upstream.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Upstream?&rdquo; Yraen said. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
upstream?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Naught, I suppose. So they won&rsquo;t expect us to go
that way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry laughed, a little mutter under his breath like a
ferret&rsquo;s chortle. Carra went ice-cold. She was going to die.
She realized it all at once with a calm clarity: what waited for
them across that river was death, and there was no escaping it.
They couldn&rsquo;t go back, they couldn&rsquo;t go forward, they
might as well cross over to the Otherlands and be done with it.
Although she tried to tell the rest of them, when she opened her
mouth she simply couldn&rsquo;t speak. Not so much as a gasp came
out.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well spoken, Otho my old friend,&rdquo; Rhodry said at
last. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s give it a try. See those boulders up there
a ways? Shelter of a sort. But we&rsquo;d best dismount, I
think.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Since the trees thinned out toward the clearing&rsquo;s edge
they could lead their horses, single file without leaving this
imperfect shelter, but they couldn&rsquo;t do it without cracking
branches and snapping twigs and setting the underbrush rustling.
Alter some twenty yards the dogs began growling and snarling,
anyway, no matter how Nedd tried to hush them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They know we&rsquo;re here,&rdquo; Rhodry said to him
finally. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t trouble yourself about it. But there
can&rsquo;t be a lot of them or they&rsquo;d have rushed us
already.&rdquo; He pointed across the river.
&ldquo;Look.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In among the trees at the far side of the clearing on the
opposite bank someone or something was moving to follow them, some
three or maybe four shapes, roughly man-shaped, that slipped along
when they moved and stopped again when they halted.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Otho,&rdquo; Rhodry said. &ldquo;You and Nedd take Carra
into the trees. We won&rsquo;t fool them, but
maybe&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra never learned what he intended. Pressed beyond canine
endurance, Thunder suddenly began to bark, then bounded
away and raced straight for the river before Nedd could grab him.
Just as he burst free of the trees something flashed and hissed in
the air: an arrow. Carra flung herself on Lightning to hold him back
and screamed as the arrow struck Thunder in the side. Another
followed, another, catching him, throwing him to the
ground&mdash;pinning him to the ground, but still alive he writhed
and howled in agony. The horses began to dance and toss their
heads in terror. Dead-silent as always Nedd ran.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t!&rdquo; Rhodry and Yraen screamed it
together.</p>

<p>Too late. Nedd reached the dog, flung himself down beside
the dying Thunder just as another flight came hissing down, bright
death catching the fading sunlight. He never
screamed, merely jerked this way and that while the long
shafts struck until at last he and Thunder both lay still, the dog
cradled in his arms, in the middle of a spreading pool of blood.
Carra felt herself sobbing and choking, but in an oddly
distant way, as if she stood beside herself and watched this girl
named Carra howl and retch until she could barely breathe. Just as
distantly she was aware of horses neighing and men cursing and
shouting, then the sound of some large animal crashing
through the underbrush. All at once Otho grabbed her by the
shoulder with one hand and. Lightning&rsquo;s collar by the
other.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Move!&rdquo; he howled. &ldquo;Run, lass!&rdquo;</p>

<p>For such a small man he was terrifyingly strong. Half dragged,
half stumbling, Carra got herself and the dog into the hollow among
the rocks and fell, half spraddled across the whining, growling
Lightning. Otho threw himself down beside her. He was cursing a
steady stream in some language she&rsquo;d never heard before.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Rhodry, Yraen?&rdquo; she gasped out.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right here.&rdquo; Rhodry hunkered down beside her.
&ldquo;Hush, lass. They won&rsquo;t come for us here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Her tears stopped of their own accord, leaving her face sticky
and filthy both. She wiped it best she could on her equally filthy
sleeve, then looked around her. In that last panicked dash
they had reached the cluster of boulders and what shelter they were going to
find. The river ran too deep to cross some yards off to the
north; the forest grew thick and tangled to the south; the rocks
rose up and melded with a cliff to the west behind them. Ahead and
east, they had a clear view of the ford, some distance away, and
the dark shape sprawled in the gathering shadows that had once been
Nedd and Thunder.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They can&rsquo;t get round back here without the dog
letting us know.&rdquo; It was Yraen, sliding down the rocks behind
them. &ldquo;And they won&rsquo;t get a clear aim to skewer us in
here, and we can see them coming if they rush us. Couldn&rsquo;t
have been more than ten of them, Rhodry. If they try to squirm in
here, on this broken ground, we&rsquo;ll drop them easy.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True spoken. Think we can hold off a small army? We might
have to. I&rsquo;ll wager they&rsquo;re on their way to fetch a few
friends.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Or one or two of them are. I&rsquo;d say they left a
squad behind, some archers, too, in case we take it into our heads,
like, to try to cross the river. Huh. Told you there was somewhat
wrong with that cursed ford, didn&rsquo;t I?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Did I argue with you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>By then Carra was too spent to be frightened. She leaned back
against a rock and looked straight in front of her with eyes that
barely saw.</p>

<p>&rdquo;Is there any water?&rdquo; she whispered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s not,&rdquo; Otho said. &ldquo;Nor food,
either. The horses bolted.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, I see. We&rsquo;re still going to die, aren&rsquo;t
we?&rdquo;</p>

<p>No one said a word.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I only mind because of the baby, really.&rdquo; She
needed, suddenly, to make them understand. &ldquo;It seems so
unfair to the poor little thing. It never had a chance to live and
now it&rsquo;s going to die. I mean, when it comes to me, I might
have died in childbirth anyway, and this is still better than Lord
Scraev, but&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hush, my lady!&rdquo; The words sounded as if someone
were tearing them out of Otho under torture. &ldquo;Ah, ye gods!
Forgive me, that ever I should let this happen to you!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not as if you had any choice in the
matter.&rdquo; Carra laid a hand on his arm.</p>

<p>She was shocked to see tears in his eyes. He wiped them
vigorously with both hands before he went on.</p>

<p>&ldquo;As soon as it&rsquo;s dark, I&rsquo;m going to try
creeping through the forest a ways. We can move quiet when we want
to, my people. The way those horses were tearing through the brush,
a saddlebag or two might have gotten itself pulled free.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And if there&rsquo;s someone out there?&rdquo; Yraen
said. &ldquo;Waiting for one of us to try just that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otho merely shrugged. Rhodry was examining the leather pouch he
carried at his belt.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This should hold a little water.&rdquo; He dumped the
coins in a long jingle onto the ground. &ldquo;I think I can reach
the river and get back again. I hate to think of our lady going
thirsty.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll do it.&rdquo; Otho snatched the pouch from
him. &ldquo;You need to be here. Just in case, like.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In the gathering dusk Otho slipped off, moving silent and
surefooted around the rocks. In a few moments, though, they heard
him chuckle.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My lady, come here,&rdquo; he called. &ldquo;I think you
can squeeze through, and there&rsquo;s a nice little stream, there
is. Bring the dog, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Sure enough, by sliding and cramming herself between two massive
boulders, Carra popped out into a flatfish opening big enough for
her to crouch and Otho to stand upright, where a trickle of water
ran down one rock, pooled, then disappeared under an overhang in
the general direction of the river. She flung herself down and
drank as greedily as the dog beside her, then washed her face. Otho
was looking round with a grin of triumph on his face.</p>

<p>&ldquo;When they come for us, my lady, you can hide in here.
We&rsquo;ll draw them off, down toward the ford, say. Once all the
shouting&rsquo;s over, you&rsquo;ll have a chance to make your way
north to the gwerbret. Not much of a chance, but better than none.
If we tie that blasted dog&rsquo;s mouth shut, we can hide him,
too, and you&rsquo;ll have company, like, on your journey.
I&rsquo;ll die easier, knowing that. Think of the child, my lady.
It&rsquo;ll keep you strong.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am. It&rsquo;s worth a try, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yet with the hope fear returned and a grief sharper than any
she&rsquo;d ever known. Otho, Yraen, Rhodry&mdash;all dead for her
sake? As Nedd already was. Lightning whined, pushing into her lap,
reaching up to lick her face and whimper over and over again. She
threw her arms around his neck and would have cried, but all her
tears were spent.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come now, lass, come now.&rdquo; Otho&rsquo;s voice was
very soft. &ldquo;I was only going home to die, anyway, and Rhodry
loves death more than he ever loved life, and well, I&rsquo;m sorry
for Yraen, not that you&rsquo;d best ever tell him that, but then,
he made his choice when he took to the long road, and who can argue
with Wyrd, anyway, eh? Come now, hush. We&rsquo;ll take them some
water and tell them what we&rsquo;ve found.&rdquo;</p>

<p>By then a gibbous moon was rising, silvering the river, picking
out Nedd&rsquo;s body and the gleam of arrows lying on the grass.
Although Carra wished with all her heart that they could bury him
and Thunder, too, it seemed too trivial to mention to men who would
doubtless lie dead and unburied themselves in the morning. She sat
with her back to one of the boulders and stared fixedly in the
opposite direction while Otho went back and forth fetching pouches
of water for the two silver daggers. All at once she realized that
her body had a thing or two that needed attending to, and urgently.
Ever since she&rsquo;d gotten pregnant, it seemed, when she needed
to relieve herself there was simply no arguing about it. She got up
and slipped away, keeping to the safe shelter of the boulders and
broken terrain, to find a private spot.</p>

<p>When she was done she walked a few steps toward the forest and
stood looking into the silver-touched shadows. For miles and miles
the trees stretched, hiding enemies, maybe, or maybe promising
safety. She wondered how far away the rest of the bandits were, and
how fast their advance scouts would reach them. They won&rsquo;t
attack till dawn, she thought. We&rsquo;ve got that long. Out in
the shadows something moved. Her heart thudded, stuck cold in her
chest; her hands clenched so hard her nails dug into her palms. It
seemed that a bird, a strange silvery bird with enormous wings,
dropped from the sky and settled deep among the trees.</p>

<p>A trick of moonlight&mdash;it had to be a thrown shadow and
naught more&mdash;but a branch rustled, a tree shivered. Something
snapped and stamped. Carra wanted to run, knew she should run,
tried to call out, but she was frozen there, ice-cold and
stone-still, as something&mdash;no, someone&mdash;made its way,
made his way through the trees&mdash;no, her way. A silver-haired
woman, wearing men&rsquo;s clothing but too graceful and slender to
be a man, stepped out into the clearing. She carried a rough cloth
sack in one hand, and at her belt gleamed the pommel of a silver
dagger.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m a friend. Where&rsquo;s Rhodry?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra could only raise a hand and gesture mutely toward the
boulders. As she led the way back, she could hear the woman
following, but she was afraid to turn round and look behind lest
the woman disappear. All Rhodry&rsquo;s talk of shape-changers
rushed back to her mind and hovered like a bird, half-seen in
moonlight.</p>

<p>In among the broken rocks they found the men sitting in a
circle, heads together, talking in low voices about the coming
battle, if one could call it that. Carra suddenly realized that she
could see them clearly, could pick out the expressions on their
faces as they looked up startled. Only then did she realize that
the woman gave off a faint silver light, hovering round her like
scent.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill!&rdquo; Rhodry leapt to his feet and stepped back as
if in fear. &ldquo;Jill. I&mdash;ye gods! Jill!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s the name my father gave me, sure enough.
Come along, all of you! We&rsquo;ve got to get out of here and
right now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But those guards, they&rsquo;ve got
archers&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; Yraen let his voice trail
away.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who no longer matter at all.&rdquo; Jill glanced
Otho&rsquo;s way. &ldquo;Hurry! Get up!&rdquo;</p>

<p>Lightning sprang up at the command and Otho followed more
slowly, grumbling to himself.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good.&rdquo; Jill glanced her way. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve
got guts, lass. You are Carramaena, aren&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am. But how did&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Someone told me. No time to explain. Let&rsquo;s get out
of here. I can&rsquo;t deal with a whole pack of raiders, and
they&rsquo;re on their way. Rhodry, get up here with me. Yraen,
take the rear guard with Carra. Otho, keep a hand on that
dog&rsquo;s collar, will you? I don&rsquo;t want him
bolting.&rdquo;</p>

<p>As they picked their way through the broken rocks and headed
downstream toward the ford, Jill pulled a little ahead. Carra could
see her looking around, frowning every now and then and biting her
lower lip as a person will when they&rsquo;re trying to remember
something. Daft though this exercise seemed, Carra could pay no
attention, because they were walking straight toward the ford where
Nedd and Thunder lay. She could hear Lightning whining and
Otho&rsquo;s reassuring whisper, and she clung to the sound as if
to someone&rsquo;s hand. When they reached the bodies, she turned
her head away and stared across the river. Something was moving
among the trees. Even in the poor light she&mdash;they all&mdash;could see the underbrush shaking at the approach of someone or
something.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Keep walking,&rdquo; Jill snapped. &ldquo;You have to
trust me. Keep walking straight ahead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>No one hesitated, everyone moved, striding forward even though
Carra suspected that they were all waiting for the hiss of an
arrow, flying them their deaths. They walked a few feet, and a few
more, and on and on, until Carra suddenly realized that they should
have been wading right into the water instead of walking on dry
land. All around her trees towered. The men began to swear in a
string of foul curses.</p>

<p>&ldquo;By every god!&rdquo; Yraen snarled. &ldquo;How did you
manage that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;None of your cursed affair, silver dagger,&rdquo; Otho
broke in.
&ldquo;We&rsquo;re across, aren&rsquo;t we? That&rsquo;s all
that matters, and I for one am not going to be flapping my lips at
a dweomerwoman.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Only then did Carra realize that the river lay behind
them&mdash;far behind them, out of sight, in fact. All she could
hear was the merest rustle and murmur of distant water flowing over
rock.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Our friends can wait in ambuscade all they like,&rdquo;
Jill remarked. &ldquo;And poke around in the rocks as if they were
hunting badgers, too, when the dawn rises, but we&rsquo;d best be
on our way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra turned for one last look back.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Farewell, Nedd, and it aches my heart to lose you. I
only wish I could build you a cairn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nicely spoken.&rdquo; Rhodry laid a comforting hand on
her shoulder. &ldquo;But truly, I doubt me if it matters to his
soul, and the gods all know that we might be seeing him in the
Otherlands soon enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With Jill hissing at them to hurry, they headed into the forest,
picking their way along a deer track that ran east and downstream.
In the middle of the line of march Carra stumbled along, shivering
and exhausted, praying to the Goddess every now and then to keep
the unborn baby safe, for what seemed like hours, though when they
finally stopped she realized that the moon was still riding close
to zenith. There in a clearing stood all their horses, their gear
still intact, even Nedd&rsquo;s.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How did you&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; Rhodry
said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Wildfolk collected them,&rdquo; Jill interrupted him
with a wave of her hand. &ldquo;And brought them round by the other
ford.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra giggled, thinking she was having a jest on them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And how did you find us?&rdquo; Rhodry went on.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s no time for talk now. Listen, you&rsquo;re
going to have to ride as fast as these poor beasts can carry you. I
can&rsquo;t just take you to the city, because of the way time
would run all wrong. You need to arrive straightaway, not weeks
from now, you see.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra didn&rsquo;t see, and she was willing to wager that none
of the others did, either, but oddly enough, not one question got
itself asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Follow the river back to the road, and then make all the
speed you can,&rdquo; Jill went on, &ldquo;The forest peters out
about ten miles north of the river, and then you come to farming
country, and finally to the gwerbret&rsquo;s town. I wish to all
the gods that you&rsquo;d been coming from the east. You&rsquo;d
have been safe, then&mdash;it&rsquo;s settled country all the
way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My humble apologies, my fair sorceress.&rdquo; Rhodry
made her a mocking sort of bow. &ldquo;But if you&rsquo;d been good
enough to appear and warn us that we&rsquo;d be set upon by
bandits, I&rsquo;d have&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not bandits. But there&rsquo;s no time. Get to Gwerbret
Cadmar. Tell him you met up with the raiders, and tell him
you&rsquo;re a friend of mine.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Aren&rsquo;t you coming with us?&rdquo; Otho broke
in.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not exactly.&rdquo; She allowed herself a brief smile.
&ldquo;But I&rsquo;ll be there soon enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra remembered the bird, dropping gracefully from the silver
sky, and shuddered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My lady, you must be half-frozen,&rdquo; Otho said.
&ldquo;Let me get your cloak.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Once she was mounted and wrapped in the heavy wool cloth, Carra
turned to say farewell to Jill only to find her already gone,
slipped off into the forest, apparently, when none of them were
looking. But all during that long and miserable ride down the
wooden road, Carra would look up every now and then to see or think
she saw a bird-shape sailing in the moonlight, high above them as
if it were on guard.</p>

<p>The rest of the ride as well crossed over into that mental land
where everything could be either real or dream. At times she
drowsed, once so dangerously that Otho woke her with a shout; he
grabbed the reins from her and led her horse along after that. At
other tunes she felt that she&rsquo;d never been so wide-awake in
her life. She would see some detail of the forest around them, a
spill of moonlight on a branch, say, or a carved stone slab rising
out of a clearing, so plainly and precisely that the image seemed
burned into her consciousness to last forever. Yet, when she would
try to place that image into a context, she would realize that
she&rsquo;d been half-asleep again and for miles.</p>

<p>Toward dawn they stumbled free of the forest to the relative
safety of open and cultivated land, a roll of ripening wheat
over long downs, striped green with pastures where white cows
with rusty-red ears were lurching to their feet in the brightening
sun. A few more miles brought them to a spiral of earthwork walls
enclosing a round, thatched farmhouse. Much to Yraen&rsquo;s
surprise, Otho&mdash;Rhodry&rsquo;s coin still lay in the dirt
among the boulders&mdash;spent some of his precious coin to get a
hot meal for them all. The farm wife, a stout woman missing half
her teeth, clucked over Carra and brought her a steaming cup of
herbed water.</p>

<p>&ldquo;To warm your innards, like. You look to me like you need
to sleep, lass.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I do, truly, but we&rsquo;ve got to get to the gwerbret.
On top of everything else, I&rsquo;m with child, you see.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, may the Goddess bless you!&rdquo; The woman smiled,
all brown stumps but good humor. &ldquo;Your first, is
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is. Well, if I don&rsquo;t lose the poor little thing,
anyway, or die myself or something.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now, now, don&rsquo;t you worry. I&rsquo;ve had six
myself, lass, and don&rsquo;t you go listening to them ever-so-fine
town ladies, moaning and groaning about how much pain they felt and
all that. Why, no reason for it to be so bad, say I! My first one,
now, he did give me a bit of trouble, but with our last, our Myla
that is, I had her in the morning and was out digging turnips that
night.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Late that day, when the horses were stumbling weary and Carra
herself so tired that she felt like sobbing aloud, they wound their
way past one last farm and saw the rough stone walls of Cengarn,
Gwerbret Cadmar&rsquo;s city, circling round to enclose three
hills. Above the walls, she could see roofs and towers climbing up
the slopes; at the rocky crest of the highest hill a tall stone
broch rose in a flutter of gold-colored pennants. As they rode up,
they found a river flowing out through a stone arch, guarded by a
portcullis in the walls. Although Rhodry and Yraen had been
worrying about the sort of reception they&rsquo;d get, at
the city gates the guards hailed them with an urgent
friendliness.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Silver daggers, are you? Is that young woman with you her
ladyship Carramaena of the Westlands?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m, Carramaena, sure enough.&rdquo; Carra
urged her horse a link forward. &ldquo;How do you
know&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your husband&rsquo;s waiting for you up in the dun, my
lady. Come along, if you please. I&rsquo;ll escort you there
straightaway.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Although the men dismounted to spare the horses their weight on
the steep slopes, Rhodry insisted that Carra ride whether Gwerlas
was tired or no, and she was too exhausted, shivering with worry
about her unborn child, to argue with him. As the guard led them
along, she clung to the saddle peak with both hands and barely
noticed the crowds of curious townsfolk who scurried out of their
way. Their route took them round and about, looping round half the
town it seemed, yet always leading them higher and higher, up to
the gwerbret&rsquo;s dun.</p>

<p>Even though it was a rough sort of place at that time, Cengarn
was already the strangest city in all Deverry, as much green with
trees and gardens as gray with stone. At first glance the round,
thatched houses, set randomly on curving streets, seemed ordinary
enough, but here and there on the flanks of the steep hillsides
little alleys led to huge wooden doors set right into the slopes
themselves. Not only did the river, spanned by a dozen wooden
bridges, wind through the valley between the hills, but right in
the center of town a tiny waterfall cascaded down the steepest
slope of all. Their escort pointed it out with a certain pride.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s a spring up in the citadel,&rdquo; he
remarked. &ldquo;Cursed handy thing for a siege.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And more than passing strange,&rdquo; Rhodry said.
&ldquo;A spring at the top of a hill like that, I mean.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The guard merely winked and grinned in a hint of secrets.</p>

<p>The dun itself was all carved stone and slate tiles, set behind
a second rise of walls and gates of oak bound with iron. At the
entrance to the main tower, Carra allowed Rhodry to help her
dismount&mdash;in fact, she nearly fell into his arms. As she stood
there, trying to collect her energy for the last little walk into
the broch, she heard an elven voice yelling her name and looked up
to see Dar, racing toward her with an escort of ten men of the
Westfolk trailing after. In the sun his dark hair gleamed, flecked
with bluish highlights like a raven&rsquo;s wing. He never goes
anywhere alone, was her muddled thought. I should have known he was
a prince because of that.</p>

<p>Lightning leapt in between them and growled, tail rigid, ears
flat.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s all right.&rdquo; Carra caught the dog&rsquo;s
attention and signaled him back to her side. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s a
friend.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dar laughed, striding forward, throwing his arms tight around
her, and she could think of nothing but him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, my love, oh, my heart!&rdquo; He was stammering and
weeping and laughing in a vast confusion of feeling. &ldquo;Thank
the gods you&rsquo;re safe. Thank the gods and the dweomer both!
I&rsquo;ve been such a dolt, such an imbecile! Can you ever forgive
me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What for?&rdquo; She looked up, dazed by the flood of
words, ensorcelled by warmth and safety.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I never should have left you for a moment. I&rsquo;ll never
forgive myself for making you ride after me like this. I should
have known your pig-faced Round-ear of a brother would try to marry
you off.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I didn&rsquo;t let him. Please, Dar, I&rsquo;ve got
to sit down. Can&rsquo;t I forgive you and all that
later?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He picked her up like a child and carried her toward the door,
but she fell asleep in his arms long before he reached it.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">As soon as Dar appeared in the doorway to the great hall with
Carra in his arms and Lightning trotting faithfully behind, a
flurry of womenfolk sprang up like a whirlwind and surrounded them,
blew them away in a storm of practical chatter. Rhodry stood at the
foot of the spiral staircase and watched Dar carry her up, the
elven lad as surefooted as a goat on a sloped stone roof as he
navigated the turns. After him went the women, the elderly serving
women puffing and talking all in the same breath, the
gwerbret&rsquo;s lady giving calm orders.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Silver dagger?&rdquo; A page appeared at his elbow.
&ldquo;His grace wants to speak to you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What about our horses?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, the stable lad&rsquo;s taken them already.
Don&rsquo;t worry. They&rsquo;ll get plenty to eat and a good
grooming. The gwerbret&rsquo;s a truly generous man.&rdquo;</p>

<p>To prove his point the page led them straight to the table of
honor, where a serving lass brought them ale and a big basket of
bread. While they were stuffing that in, a platter of cold roast
pork appeared to go with it. Yraen and Otho ate steadily and
fiercely, like men who wonder if they&rsquo;ll ever eat as well
again, but Rhodry, hungry though he was, picked at the food and
sipped the ale sparingly. He was preternaturally awake, drawn as
fine and sharp as a steel wire from his hunger and the danger of
the night just past, and for a little while he wanted to stay that
way. He slewed round on the bench and considered the circular great
hall, the entire ground floor of the gwerbret&rsquo;s broch. On one
side, by a back door, stood enough tables for a warband of well
over a hundred men; at the hearth, near the table of honor itself,
were five more for guests and servitors. On the floor lay a carpet
of fresh braided rushes. The walls and the enormous hearth were
made of a pale tan stone, all beautifully worked and carved. Never
had Rhodry seen a room with so much fine stonework, in fact: huge
panels of interlacement edged the windows and were set into the
walls alternately with roundels of spirals and fantastic animals,
and an entire stone dragon embraced the hearth, its head resting on
its paws, planted on the floor, its winged back forming the mantel,
and its long tail curling down the other side.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nice bit of work, that,&rdquo; Otho said with his mouth
full.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The dragon? It is. Did one of your people carve
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No doubt.&rdquo; Otho paused for a long swallow of ale.
&ldquo;Think our lady&rsquo;s in safe hands?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I do. Jill told us to bring her here, didn&rsquo;t
she?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True. Huh. I suppose she knows what she&rsquo;s
doing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ye gods!&rdquo; Yraen looked up from his steady feeding.
&ldquo;You suppose she knows&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the
woman&rsquo;s a blasted sorcerer, isn&rsquo;t she? Ye gods!
Isn&rsquo;t that enough for you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why should it be? The question is, is she a competent
sorcerer?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;After the way she carried us across the river, I&rsquo;d
say she is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, maybe. Hum, you&rsquo;ve got to realize that
I&rsquo;ve known her ever since she was a little lass, and
it&rsquo;s hard to believe that sweet little child&rsquo;s up and
grown into a&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hold your tongues, both of you!&rdquo; Rhodry broke in.
&ldquo;Here comes his grace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Even though he limped badly on a twisted right leg, Gwerbret
Cadmar was an imposing man, standing well over six feet tall, broad
in the shoulders, broad in the hands. His slate-gray hair and
mustaches bristled; his face was weather-beaten and dark; his eyes
gleamed a startling blue under heavy brows. As he sat down, he
looked over Rhodry and Yraen for a moment, then turned to Otho.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good morrow, good sir, and welcome to my humble dun. I
take it that you&rsquo;re passing through on the way to your
homeland.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen choked on his ale and sputtered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am at that, Your Grace,&rdquo; Otho said. &ldquo;Bet
I&rsquo;ll beg your leave to spend a while  in your town. I have to
send letters to my kin, because I&rsquo;ve been gone for many a
long year now, and I&rsquo;ve got no idea if I&rsquo;m welcome or
not.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A family matter, then?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It was, truly, and I&rsquo;d prefer not to speak of it unless
your grace requires me to do so.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Far be it from me to pry into the affairs of
another man&rsquo;s clan. But by all means, good sir, make yourself
welcome in my town. No doubt you&rsquo;ll find an inn to suit you
while you wait.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen recovered himself and stared at Otho in an angry
bafflement.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now, silver daggers,&rdquo; the gwerbret went on.
&ldquo;I owe you thanks for bringing the lady Carramaena safely
here. No doubt the prince will reward you with something a bit
more useful than mere thanks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Prince?&rdquo; Yraen snapped. &ldquo;Your Grace, you
mean he really is a prince?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course he is.&rdquo; Cadmar favored him with a brief
smile, &ldquo;And his good favor&rsquo;s important to all of us
here on the border, I might add. I don&rsquo;t have the land to
raise horses. No one does in these wretched hills. If the
Westfolk didn&rsquo;t come here to trade we&rsquo;d all be
walking to battle soon enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;&rsquo;One up for you, Rhodry. I&rsquo;ll admit I didn&rsquo;t
believe you when you started talking about elven princes and
suchlike.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe it&rsquo;ll teach you to listen to your betters.
Your Grace, I&rsquo;ve somewhat to tell you. One of the southern
villages was destroyed by raiders, and we were nearly killed on the
road here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All attention, the gwerbret leaned forward to listen as Rhodry
told the tale of their ride north and the ambush by the ford. When
it came to their escape, though, Rhodry hesitated, wondering how he
was going to hide the dweomer in it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How did you get out of that little trap, silver
dagger?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, Your Grace, this is the strangest bit of all,
and I&rsquo;ll beg your grace to believe me, because truly, if it
hadn&rsquo;t happened to me, I wouldn&rsquo;t believe it
myself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah. Jill got you out of it, did she?&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was Rhodry&rsquo;s turn for the surprise. He stared
open-mouthed, searching for words, while Cadmar laughed at him, a
grim sort of mutter under his breath. </p>

<p>&ldquo;She showed up here last fall, just in time to save this
leg.&rdquo; The gwerbret laid one hand on his twisted thigh.
&ldquo;The chirurgeon was going to cut it off, but our traveling
herbwoman makes him stay his hand and then, by the gods! if she
doesn&rsquo;t go and cure the fever in the blood and set the thing
in such a way as I can actually walk. Not well, truly, but
it&rsquo;s better than stumbling around on a wooden stump. And so
needless to say, I was inclined to treat her generously. All she
wanted was a little hut out in the wilderness, and I was more than
glad to give her that and all the food she could eat and wood for
warmth as well. She&rsquo;s done many a fine thing for my folk over
the winter. And of course, they all say she&rsquo;s got the
dweomer, and truly, I&rsquo;ve seen enough now to believe it
myself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, Your Grace, I think she does, because she got us
clear of the raiders and got us our horses back as well, and then
she told us to come and tell you our tale. And so we
have.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Nodding a little, Cadmar leaned back in his chair and looked out
over the hall. Off at their side his warband sat drinking in
silence, straining to hear the story that these strangers were
telling their lord.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And did she say when she&rsquo;d return to my
dun?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She didn&rsquo;t, Your Grace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Imph, well.&rdquo; Cadmar thought for a long moment.
&ldquo;Well, silver daggers, we&rsquo;ll wait the day, at least.
You need to sleep, and I&rsquo;ve got to summon my vassals. Then
we&rsquo;re riding out after these bastards. Want a
hire?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Never have I been so glad of one, Your Grace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Me, too,&rdquo; Yraen broke in. &ldquo;I can still see
that village in my mind, like, and that poor woman we
found.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Pregnant, was she?&rdquo; Cadmar turned to him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;She was, Your Grace, and murdered.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cadmar winced.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;ve been doing that, you see. Killing the women
with child. It&rsquo;s almost as if&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;well,
it sounds ridiculous, but it&rsquo;s almost as if that&rsquo;s why
they&rsquo;re here, to kill all the women carrying children. Every
now and then one of the survivors heard things, you see. A lad who
managed to hide under an overturned wagon told me he heard two of
them say somewhat like: time to ride on, we&rsquo;ve gotten all the
breeding sows in this pen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry went sick cold, thinking of Carra.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And who are they, Your Grace?&rdquo; Yraen said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;A band of marauders. Men like you and me, not Westfolk or
dwarves, All the survivors have been clear as clear about that.
They appeared last summer, started raiding the outlying farms.
Bandits, think I, starving and desperate. We tried to track them
down. That&rsquo;s where I took this wound.&rdquo; Reflexively he
rubbed his thigh. &ldquo;The bastards got away from us that time,
but they didn&rsquo;t come back. I thought I&rsquo;d scared them off, but
with the spring they showed up and worse than ever. I doubt me very
much if they&rsquo;re ordinary bandits. They&rsquo;re too cursed
clever, for one thing. And they&rsquo;ve got good weapons, good
armor, and they&rsquo;ve been trained to fight as a
unit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not bandits at all, then, Your Grace,&rdquo; Rhodry said.
&ldquo;They must have some kind of a leader. I don&rsquo;t suppose
any of the survivors got a look at him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;One or two think they might have. An enormously tall man,
they say, all wrapped in a dark blue cloak with the hood well
up, giving orders in an odd growl of a voice. All they saw clear
like was his hands, huge hands with hair on the backs, and they
swear up and down that he only had three fingers on each of
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Some fragment of lore pricked in Rhodry&rsquo;s mind and made
his blood run cold. He was too tired to remember exactly why, but
he somehow knew that those missing fingers meant something, meant a
great deal, and none of it good.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re dropping where you sit, silver
daggers,&rdquo; Cadmar said with a grin. He hauled himself to his
feet and motioned toward his warband. &ldquo;Maen, Dwic, get over
here. Find these silver daggers bunks and some clean
blankets.&rdquo; He turned to Otho. &ldquo;Good sir, would you care
for an escort into town?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you could spare a lad to show me the way to an inn,
Your Grace, I&rsquo;d be grateful.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen stared goggle-eyed as a page appeared to play servant to
the dwarf and lead him away. At the door Otho turned and honored
them with a cheery wave. It was the first time Rhodry had ever seen
him grin.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I never!&rdquo; Yraen hissed. &ldquo;By all the
gods and a rat&rsquo;s ass, too!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I told you that anyone rich enough to hire us must be
some sort of a personage, didn&rsquo;t I now?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen was in for one more surprise. As they were leaving the
hall, they passed the table where Daralanteriel&rsquo;s escort was
sitting, though Dar himself seemed to be lingering with his lady
upstairs. At the sight of Rhodry all of the men leapt up, yelling
his name, mobbing him round, slapping him on his back, and talking
as fast as they could and all in Elvish. Rhodry answered in the
same; as tired as he was, he was near to tears just from hearing
that musical tongue again.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And Calonderiel,&rdquo; he said at length. &ldquo;How is
he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;As mean and stubborn as ever,&rdquo; one of the archers
said, grinning. &ldquo;If he&rsquo;d known you were on your way
here, he&rsquo;d have ridden east with us, I&rsquo;m
sure.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry started to make some jest, then saw Yraen, watching all
of this with his mouth hanging open. The gwerbret&rsquo;s man
seemed more than a little surprised himself.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;d best go,&rdquo; Rhodry said to the archers.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll come drink with you all later.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When Rhodry extricated himself and rejoined him, Yraen started
to speak, then merely shrugged and looked heavenward, as if
reproaching the gods.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, come along, then,&rdquo; Rhodry said. &ldquo;No use
in just standing here, is there? Let&rsquo;s go see what our new
lord&rsquo;s barracks are like.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Quite decent, as it turned out. Made of good oak and freshly
whitewashed, the barracks stood on top of the stables and up
against the dun wall in the usual style. The bunks were solid, the
mattresses new, and Maen issued them both good quality
blankets.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The gwerbret must be a grand man to ride for,&rdquo;
Rhodry said. &ldquo;If he&rsquo;ll treat a silver dagger this
well.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He is.&rdquo; Maen, a pale slip of a lad, stood for a
moment looking them over. &ldquo;Well, we need every man we can get
now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen growled under his breath, but Rhodry stepped in front of
him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thanks for your help. We&rsquo;ll just be getting some
sleep.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Maen shrugged and slouched out of the room. Yraen ostentatiously
spit onto the straw-strewn floor.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I always warned you about the long road, didn&rsquo;t
I?&rdquo; Rhodry suddenly yawned and flopped down on the edge of
his bunk to pull off his boots. &ldquo;Ye gods, I just realized
somewhat. Otho never paid us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Little bastard! Well, we&rsquo;ll have it out of his
pockets or his hide. Either one&rsquo;s fine with me. Rhodry, those
men. The prince&rsquo;s escort, I mean. Uh, they&rsquo;re not
human, are they.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was not a question.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re not, truly. Do you remember years and years
ago, when we first met, and we talked one night about seeing things
that weren&rsquo;t there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And Mael the Seer&rsquo;s book, and the way he was always
mentioning elves. I do. It aches my heart to admit it, but I
do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, then, I don&rsquo;t need to say a cursed lot more,
do I now?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen merely sighed for a no and busied himself with making up
his bunk. Rhodry lay down, wrapped himself in his blankets, and
fell asleep before he even heard Yraen start snoring.</p>

<p>When he woke, the barracks were pitch-dark and empty, but Jill
was sitting on the end of his bunk. Her he could see in the silver
cloud clinging to her, an ever-shifting light that hinted of
half-seen forms. He stifled a yelp of surprise and sat up.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My apologies,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t mean
to startle you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;d give any man a turn, seeing a woman he once
loved and all that glowing like the moon. Ye gods, Jill, are you a
ghost or suchlike?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Close to it.&rdquo; She paused to smile at him.
&ldquo;But spirits from the Otherlands can&rsquo;t set broken legs
and suchlike, so you can lay your troubled heart to rest. I&rsquo;m
real enough. The light&rsquo;s only the Wildfolk of Aethyr.
I&rsquo;m surprised you can&rsquo;t see them. They&rsquo;ve taken
to following me around, and most times I don&rsquo;t have the heart
to shoo them away.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I can see somewhat moving there, sure enough. It
still creeps my flesh.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Here he at last had the leisure to take a good look at her. Her
hair, cropped off like a lad&rsquo;s as usual, had gone perfectly
white, and her face was thin, too thin, really, as he studied her,
so that her eyes seemed enormous, dominating her face the way a
child&rsquo;s do. Overall, in fact, she was shockingly thin, and
quite pale, yet she hardly seemed weak. It was as if her skin and
blood and bone had all been replaced by some finer substance, some
magical element halfway between glass and silver, say, or some sort
of living silk.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Have you been ill or suchlike?&rdquo; Rhodry said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very ill. In the islands it was, what they call the
shaking fever. I&rsquo;ve had it a number of times, now, and
there&rsquo;s no guarantee that I&rsquo;m rid of it, either. They
say that once it gets into your blood, it&rsquo;s yours for
life.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That aches my heart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not half as much as it aches mine.&rdquo; She grinned
with a flash of her old good humor. &ldquo;I must look hideously
old, I suppose.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t look truly here. It&rsquo;s like
you&rsquo;ve already left us for the Otherlands or
suchlike.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In a way, perhaps, I have.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah. You know, you look like Nevyn used to. I mean,
you&rsquo;d think he was old, truly, and then he&rsquo;d speak or
do somewhat, and you&rsquo;d know it no longer mattered in the
least how old he was.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded, considering what he&rsquo;d said,</p>

<p>&ldquo;But here, where&rsquo;s Yraen? And is the lass safe and
well?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Safe, she is, and Labanria&mdash;that&rsquo;s the
gwerbret&rsquo;s lady&mdash;tells me she&rsquo;ll be back to her
old self in a day or so. I was truly worried about that child
she&rsquo;s carrying, but the womenfolk say she&rsquo;s not far
enough along to lose it just from being tired and cold and
suchlike. As for Yraen, he&rsquo;s eating his dinner in the
great hall. I came out to fetch you,&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yawning and stretching, he found his boots and put them on.</p>

<p>&ldquo;By the way, about Yraen,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Do you
know who he really is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course. Don&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Some son of a noble house who went daft and ran off some
years back, but I don&rsquo;t know his real name, no.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She laughed with a toss of her head,</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, then, maybe it&rsquo;ll come back to you, sooner or
later.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? Are you telling me that I used to know him or suchlike?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wel, not to say &ldquo;know&rdquo; him, not intimately or
some such thing, You, weren&rsquo;t in any position to make a
friend out of him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill, curse it all! I&rsquo;m as sick, as I on
be of dweomer riddles!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;&rdquo;Indeed? Then what do you want to know?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;For a start, how did you know where I was?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I scried you out, of course. In the fire and
water.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry felt profoundly foolish.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, curse it! Let&rsquo;s just go to the great
hall. I want some ale, I do, and the darker the better.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? No more answers?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She was smiling as if she might be teasing him, daring
him even, to ask her the questions that suddenly frightened him,
no matter how badly he&rsquo;d ached to know them before.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just one thing. Our Yraen? Does he have royal blood in
his veins?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He does, at that, but he&rsquo;s a long, long way from
the throne, the youngest son of a youngest son, The kingdom
won&rsquo;t miss him. I&rsquo;m glad you decided to pledge
him to the silver dagger and let him follow his Wyrd.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&rdquo;I decided? Since when have I had one wretched chance at
deciding anything, whether for me or some other man?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s a fair complaint.&rdquo; She laid a
hand, as light as the touch of a bird&rsquo;s wing, onto his arm.
&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve been thrown about like a shipwrecked man at
sea, haven&rsquo;t you? But I think me that the land&rsquo;s in
sight at last. Let&rsquo;s go join the others.&rdquo; She stood up.
&ldquo;Cadmar&rsquo;s having somewhat of a council of war, and
I&rsquo;ve told him he should include you in it. And you
shouldn&rsquo;t be sleeping out here in the barracks,
either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why not? It&rsquo;s good enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s not the point. I might need you to watch
over Carra.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, here! Dar&rsquo;s with her and twenty fighting men as
well.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But they haven&rsquo;t seen the dweomer workings you have
or lived through some of your battles, either. Rhoddo, don&rsquo;t
try to tell me that you haven&rsquo;t realized there&rsquo;s
dweomer at work here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very well, then, I won&rsquo;t, though I will say that
I&rsquo;d hoped I was wrong. Do you know what these raiders
want?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got an idea, but I&rsquo;m hoping it&rsquo;s a wrong
one. I&rsquo;d like to think it was only gold and slaves, but I
have my doubts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re not trying to kill Carra, are
they?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill winced.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Her child, actually. Someone&rsquo;s threatened to,
anyway.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who? We should tell the gwerbret, and he can drag the
culprit to justice.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;This culprit lives where the gwerbret can&rsquo;t ride,
but I doubt if I can explain.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ye gods, I&rsquo;m sick of being treated like a
simpleton!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&rdquo;My apologies, Rhoddo, but the sad truth of the thing is, I
don&rsquo;t understand it all myself. This being lives&mdash;well,
wait, you&rsquo;ve met Dallandra, and so you know a bit of it
already. She has an enemy who&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Alshandra! Am I right? The Guardian who drove me from the
grasslands.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The very one. She&rsquo;s sworn to kill Carra.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Crazed, isn&rsquo;t she? Alshandra, I mean. She scared
the wits out of me, babbling of her daughter and saying someone was
trying to steal her away.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oddly enough, she was right. Carra and Dar have done just
that, not that they meant to. But I don&rsquo;t know if these
raiders are connected with Alshandra, or just some other evil come
upon the land. Until I find that out, it&rsquo;s hard to know
exactly what to do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That makes sense. Can&rsquo;t fight an enemy when you
don&rsquo;t know his resources and allegiances.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Exactly.&rdquo; Jill laid her hand upon his arm.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m glad you&rsquo;re here, I truly am. Great things
are on the move. Carra&rsquo;s Wyrd, your Wyrd&mdash;the Wyrd of
the elven folk, too, maybe. I don&rsquo;t know the all of it
yet.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see.&rdquo; Not, of course, that he did. &ldquo;Do you
want to know another odd thing? That dog of Carra&rsquo;s? Perryn
gave him to her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill swore like a silver dagger under her breath.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know, that&rsquo;s one of those little things that
can mean a great deal, when you&rsquo;re dealing with omens. So
Perryn&rsquo;s had a hand in this, has he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, he sacrificed more than a dog, truly. That lad
lying dead at the ford? That was his grandson. He was more than a
bit simple, but it wrung my heart when he died.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No doubt.&rdquo; Her voice turned sad. &ldquo;Poor lad!
Well, you&rsquo;ll have your chance to avenge him on the morrow.
Cadmar&rsquo;s leading his men out with the dawn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. If we strip the dun of men, will Carra be safe?
Well, that&rsquo;s no doubt a stupid question! Here we are, in the
middle of a city.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not stupid at all. That&rsquo;s what I mean about your
instincts, Rhoddo. True, an army couldn&rsquo;t get at her here
with the town gates shut, but a traitor might. I&rsquo;m taking her
to stay with Otho till the warband returns. Now, <em>there</em> she&rsquo;ll
be safe.&rdquo; She hesitated briefly. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t suppose
you&rsquo;d stay with her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you order me to, I will, but I want revenge, I do. For
Nedd and those villagers both.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She considered, straying to a stop in the dark ward. Ahead the
broch loomed against the sky and spilled light out of its windows
along with laughter and talk, a familiar scene, a familiar sound,
yet with Jill there, Rhodry felt as if he&rsquo;d walked through an
invisible door into another world.</p>

<p>&rdquo;Well, go with the gwerbret, then,&rdquo; she said at last.
&ldquo;I want someone reliable to keep a watch over Dar, too.
He&rsquo;s bound and determined to take his men and ride with the
warband, and I don&rsquo;t much care to lose him,
either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then I&rsquo;ll keep an eye out for him. I must say I
don&rsquo;t mind having archers along. Come in cursed handy, they
will, if we can find these swine.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;ve set the Wildfolk looking for them, and
I&rsquo;ll be along, as well. We&rsquo;ll find them. Don&rsquo;t
trouble your heart about that.&rdquo;</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">About an hour before dawn, Carra was sitting on the edge of her
bed, wearing a pair of silk dresses that were a gift from the
gwerbret&rsquo;s lady, when Jill came to fetch her. Lightning
thumped his tail in greeting as the older woman opened the
door.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re not all silver and glowy,&rdquo; Carra
said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;So I&rsquo;m not. That was beginning to be a bit of a
nuisance, though sometimes it comes in handy, I must admit. How are
you feeling?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very well, actually. I&rsquo;m still tired. I probably
could have slept for days if her grace hadn&rsquo;t woken
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Most like. Carra, there&rsquo;s somewhat I wanted to ask
you, not that you have to answer, mind. How did you meet
Dar?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;At the horse market near my brother&rsquo;s dun, well
over a year ago it was now. He and his people rode in to trade, and
I happened to be there with my brother. And he made this horrid
jest&mdash;my brother, I mean, not Dar&mdash;he asked one of the
Westfolk men if he&rsquo;d take me in trade for a horse. And when
my brother laughed, Dar came striding up and told him that he
wouldn&rsquo;t sell him the geldings he wanted. And my brother got
mad as mad and swore at him, demanding to know why, like.&rdquo;
Carra grinned at the memory. &ldquo;And Dar said that any man
who&rsquo;d be so cruel to his sister would probably beat his stock
half to death. Which wasn&rsquo;t true, mind. My brother&rsquo;s a
grand man round his horses. But anyway, later that day, when I was
wandering round alone at the fair, Dar came up to me, and we got to
talking.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, I see.&rdquo; Jill smiled briefly. &ldquo;Love at
first sight?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, not at all. I was grateful to him, but he had to
court me all summer before I fell in love with him. You see, Jill,
he&rsquo;s the first man I&rsquo;ve ever met who wanted me, not my
brother&rsquo;s favor or some alliance. Of course, Lord Scraev was
lusting after me, too, but he&rsquo;s so awful, and the way his
mouth smells!&rdquo; She shuddered at the memory. &ldquo;But even
if my brother had found some decent man for my husband, he still
would have asked about the dowry. I don&rsquo;t think Dar even
knows what a dowry is, and I doubt me if he&rsquo;d care if he
did.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I agree with you, truly. Trade you for a horse&mdash;the
stinking gall! Well, now, it&rsquo;s time we got on our way. Get
your cloak. Otho should be waiting for us. I sent him a messenger
last night.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The great hall was filled with armed men, gobbling bread and
downing a last tankard of ale while they stood or sat in quiet
packs. Up at the table of honor the gwerbret and two noble lords
&mdash;vassals, no doubt&mdash;were huddled together, squinting at
a map by the leaping firelight. Dar detached himself from the group
and came over, signaling to ten of his escort to follow. He favored
Jill with a respectful bow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good morning, my love,&rdquo; he said to Carra. &ldquo;I
see you&rsquo;ve got the dog with you. Good. He&rsquo;ll be the
best sentinel you and the dwarves can have.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure I&rsquo;ll be fine. Dar, you will be
careful, won&rsquo;t you? It&rsquo;d break my heart to lose you,
you know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He merely laughed, tossing his head, his hair as dark as Loc Drw
in winter, and caught her by the shoulders to kiss her.</p>

<p>With Dar and his men for guards, they left the dun and hurried
through the twisting streets of Cengarn. Here and there a crack of
candlelight gleamed through wooden shutters, or firelight glittered
in a hearth, half-seen through an open door, but mostly the town
lay wrapped in its last hour of sleep before the gray dawn broke.
They trotted downhill for a bit, then cut sideways through an alley
between two roundhouses, panted uphill again, turned down and to
the left past a little stream in a stone culvert, crossed a
bridge and walked across a grassy common, soaked with dew. When
Carra glanced uphill, she found the gwerbret&rsquo;s dun much
farther away than seemed possible and gave up trying to figure out
their route. At last they came to a hillside so steep it was half a
cliff. Set right into it, between two stunted little pines, stood a
wooden door with big iron hinges. Otho was waiting with a
candle-lantern.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come in, come in, my lady. It gladdens my heart to see
you, and my thanks for taking our humble hospitality. Don&rsquo;t
you worry, Jill. No one&rsquo;ll get near the lass with us to guard
her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve no doubt of it, and my thanks to
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra gave Dar one last kiss, felt her eyes fill with tears, and
clung to him, so reluctant to let him go that her heart sank with
dread. All she could think was that the Goddess was giving her an
omen of coming disaster.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Please be careful, my love. Promise me you&rsquo;ll be
careful.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;As careful as I can be. I promise.&rdquo; Gently yet
firmly he pried himself free of her arms. &ldquo;Here, I&rsquo;ll
have my own men with me, and Rhodry ap Devaberiel as well, and if
somewhat happens to me in the middle of all of them, well, then,
it&rsquo;s my Wyrd and there&rsquo;s not one blasted thing anyone
can do about it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know.&rdquo; She forced the tears back and made herself
smile. &ldquo;Then kill a lot of bandits, will you? I keep thinking
about that poor woman.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll promise you twice for that, my love. Farewell,
and I&rsquo;ll see you the moment we ride home.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In the brightening dawn he strode off, his men trailing after,
while she waved farewell and kept the smile on her face by sheer
force of will as long as he might turn back and see. Otho cleared
his throat, then blew out the candle in his lantern with a thrifty
puff.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;d best be getting in. Town&rsquo;s waking
up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just so,&rdquo; Jill said. &ldquo;Very well, and, Carra,
try not to worry. I&rsquo;ll be traveling with the warband, you
know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t, and truly, that does gladden my
heart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill strode off uphill, her tattered brown cloak swirling about
her, and turned once to wave before she disappeared among the
houses. Something drifted free of the cloth, a thing as pale as a
moonbeam, and floated up in the rising wind. Without thinking Carra
darted forward and snatched it: a silver-gray feather, about a foot
long. She gaped at it while Otho muttered under his breath and
Lightning whined, as if agreeing with the dwarf.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My lady, we really must get in off this
street.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course, Otho, my apologies. But this feather!
It&rsquo;s really true, isn&rsquo;t it? She really can turn herself
into a bird.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, so she can. You didn&rsquo;t realize that? Humph,
what are they teaching you young folk these days, anyway? Now
let&rsquo;s get inside where it&rsquo;s safe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra tucked the feather into her kirtle, then hurried after him
through the wooden door.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Inside&rdquo; turned out to be a tunnel, made of
beautifully worked stone blocks, that led deep into the hill. Here
and there on small ledges, about six feet from the ground, heaps of
fungus in baskets gave off a bluish glow and lit their way. The
air, startlingly cool, blew around them in fresh drafts. After a
couple of hundred yards, they came at last to a round chamber, some
fifty feet across, scattered with low tables and tiny benches round
a central open hearth, where a low fire burned and a huge kettle
hung from a pair of andirons and a crossbar. Automatically Carra
glanced up and saw the smoke rising to a stone flue set in the
ceiling, and there were a number of other vents up there, too, that
seemed to be the sources of the fresh air. Three doorways in the
walls opened to other tunnels leading deeper into the inn. At one
of the tables, two men, a little shorter than Otho but younger,
muscle-bound, and heavily armed, sat yawning and nodding over metal
cups of some sort of drink.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Everyone else is abed,&rdquo; Otho said. &ldquo;But I was
tired enough when I finally got here yesterday to sleep the night
away.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He turned and spoke to the two men in still another language
that Carra had never heard before. Both jumped up and bowed to her,
then spoke in turn.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re the guards for this watch, my lady. Just
finishing their breakfast and all. Now, you have a seat over here
by the wall. I&rsquo;ll fetch you somewhat to eat.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Next to a wooden chest, Carra found a wooden chair with a
cushioned seat and a proper back, a low piece, but comfortable.
With a canine sigh Lightning flopped down at her feet and laid his
head on his front paws. Otho bustled at the hearth, came back with
a bowl of porridge, laced with butter, and a hunk of bread, then
bustled off again to fetch a tankard of milk sweetened with a
little honey.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill says you should be having plenty of milk, for the
child, you see,&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>While Carra ate, Otho opened the chest beside her and pawed
through it, finally bringing out a miscellaneous clutch of
things&mdash;two oblong wooden trays, a sack that seemed to be
filled with sand, some pointed sticks, a bone object that looked
like a small comb&mdash;and arranged them on the table. The pale
white river sand got itself poured into the trays; he used the comb
to smooth it out as flat as parchment. With a stick he drew lines
on one surface from corner to corner to divide the tray into four
triangles. Then, on the outer edges, that is, the bottom of each
triangle, he found the midpoint and connected those, overlaying a
diamond on the triangles so that the entire surface divided itself
into twelve.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The lands of the map,&rdquo; he announced. &ldquo;This is
how we dwarves get our omens, my lady, and if ever a man needed an
omen or two, it&rsquo;s me. See, each one is the true home of a
metal. Number one here is iron, two copper, and so on. The fifth is
gold, and that stands for a man&rsquo;s art, whether it&rsquo;s the
working of stone or of metals, and nine is tin, for our religion,
you see, because like tin the gods are cheap things more often than
not.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Otho! What an awful thing to say!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, you people can swear by your gods all you want, but
it&rsquo;s little good they do for you, for all your sacrificing
and chanting and so on. But each land is the home of a metal but
the last, number twelve here, right above one, so it all circles
back, like. And that one is the home of salt, not a metal at all.
And that land stands for all the hidden things in life, feuds and
suchlike, and the dweomer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;This is fascinating. How do you tell fortunes with
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Watch. I&rsquo;ll show you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otho took the second stick, held it over the second tray, then
turned his head away and began to poke dots into the sand, as fast
as he could. When he was done, he had sixteen lines of dots and
spaces to mull over.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now, these are the mothers, these lines. You take the
first lines of each to form the first daughter, and the second
lines for the second, and so on. I won&rsquo;t bother to explain
all the rules. It&rsquo;d take me all day, and you&rsquo;d find it
tedious, no doubt. But here in the land of iron, we&rsquo;ll put
the Head of the Dragon, just for starters.&rdquo; Deftly he poked a
figure into the waiting sand, two dots close together and below
them three dots vertically for the dragon&rsquo;s body. &ldquo;And
humph, I can&rsquo;t resist looking ahead. Oh, splendid! The Little
Luck goes in the land of salt. That gladdens my heart, because it
means the omens won&rsquo;t be horrible. They might not be good,
mind, but they won&rsquo;t be horrible.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra leaned on the table to watch while he muttered to himself
in a mix of several languages, brooded over the lines of dots, and
one at a time poked corresponding figures in the lands of the map.
When he was done he stared at the map for a long time, shaking his
head.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, come on, Otho, do tell me what it means.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not sure. Humph. That&rsquo;s the trouble with wretched
nonsense like telling fortunes. When you need it the most
it&rsquo;s the least clear. But it looks like everything&rsquo;ll
work out right in the end. You see, I just sent off letters to my
kin, asking if I could come home again. I got into a spot of
trouble in my youth, but that was&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;well, a
good long time ago, let&rsquo;s just say, and I&rsquo;ve got some
nice little gems that should do to pay a fine or two if they want
to levy one.&rdquo; He paused, chewing on the ends of his mustache.
&ldquo;Now, it seems like they&rsquo;ll take me back, but this I
don&rsquo;t understand.&rdquo; With the stick he pointed at the
third land. &ldquo;Quicksilver with The Road in it. Usually means a
long journey and not one you were planning to make, either. It
troubles my heart, it does.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra leaned forward for a better look, but The Road was a
simple line of four dots and not very communicative.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It wouldn&rsquo;t just mean the journey you already made,
would it? To get here, I mean. I&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>A hiss, a spitting sound like water drops on a
griddle&mdash;Carra jerked her head up and saw one of the young
dwarves, his sword drawn, walking slowly and ever so steadily
toward the table. Otho suddenly hissed, as well, an intake of
breath.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t move, my lady. Still as stone, that&rsquo;s
what we want.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Wrapped in such a false calm that Lightning never barked or
moved, the dwarf reached the table, slowly raised his sword,
hesitated, then smacked it down blade-flat onto the planks not a
foot from Carra&rsquo;s elbow. Carra jerked back just as something
under the blade crunched&mdash;and spurted with a trickle of pale
ooze. The second guard came running and swearing; Otho hurried
round the end of the table to look as the young man lifted his
blade and turned the crumpled, long-legged creature over with the
point. All three men muttered for a moment.</p>

<p>&ldquo;See that brown mark on what&rsquo;s left of its stomach?
Looks like a stemmed cup? We call that the goblet of death.&rdquo;
Otho turned to her. &ldquo;This particular creature&rsquo;s a
spider&mdash;well, it used to be, I should say. Big as your fist.
Poisonous as you could want. Or not want.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ych! That&rsquo;s disgusting!&rdquo; She looked up at the
ceiling and shuddered, half expecting to see a whole nest of them
ready to drop. &ldquo;How common are they?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re not common, my lady. You almost never find
them in civilized tunnels and suchlike. They&rsquo;re shy, like
most wild things. Find &rsquo;em hiding under rocks in the high
mountains, if you find them at all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then how, I mean, why&mdash;&rdquo; She fell silent,
seeing their answer in their faces. &ldquo;Someone brought it here,
didn&rsquo;t they?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They did.&rdquo; Otho was staring up at the ceding.
&ldquo;And whoever dropped it down through one of them vents is
long gone, I&rsquo;ll wager. There&rsquo;s another floor up there,
a gallery, like, so a workman can get up and clean out the air
vents. Anyone could climb up there easy. No one would ever see
&rsquo;em.&rdquo; He turned and snarled something in Dwarvish at
one of the young men, who rushed off. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sending him
to get the landlord and wake this place up. If we make a big fuss
about it, whoever this was won&rsquo;t dare to make more mischief.
Don&rsquo;t you worry, my lady. Safety in numbers and all
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra let go of Lightning&rsquo;s collar and sat down, feeling a
little sick as she realized the truth. Someone had just tried to
kill her, and she didn&rsquo;t even know why.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">Thanks to the support of his vassals, Gwerbret Cadmar led out
close to two hundred men that morning, far too many to assemble in
the ward of his dun. A long swirl of men and horses spread out
through the streets of Cengarn, made their way out several
different gates, then re-formed into a warband down on the plain at
the base of the city&rsquo;s hills. Although Rhodry and Yraen,
silver daggers as they were, expected to ride at the very rear and
breathe the army&rsquo;s dust, one of the gwerbret&rsquo;s own men
sought them out and grudgingly informed them that they were to ride
with his grace.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s because of the sorceress, you see, She told
our lord that you were the only one who could follow her
directions. Cursed if I know what she meant by that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No more do I,&rdquo; Rhodry said. &ldquo;Jill has a fine
hand with a riddle, I must say, and so blasted early in the
morning, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yet soon enough he found the answer. They followed the rider up
to the head of the line of march, where the gwerbret and his lords
were sitting on horseback and conferring in low voices. Although
Cadmar acknowledged them with a smile and a nod of
his head, the two lords, Matyc and Gwinardd, merely looked sour.
While they waited for the gwerbret to have time to speak to them,
Rhodry glanced idly around, sizing up the men in the warbands. They
all had good horses, good weapons, and here and there he spotted
men with the confident air of veterans. Off to one side, waiting
on horseback for the gwerbret&rsquo;s orders, sat Dar and his
archers, each man with his unstrung longbow tucked under his
right leg like a javelin and his short, curved hunting bow close
at hand on his saddle peak. Rhodry waved to Dar, happened to
glance at the sky, and swore aloud. Hovering above was an enormous
bird with the silhouette of a hawk but, as far as he could tell by
squinting into a bright morning, of a pale silvery color. It also
seemed to be carrying something in its talons, a sack, perhaps, of
some sort. As he watched, it circled and began to drift off
toward the west. With a cold certainty he knew that Jill had
mastered elven dweomer as well as the lore proper to humankind.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your Grace? Your pardon for this interruption, but
we&rsquo;re to ride west. Our guide&rsquo;s just
arrived.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Um, indeed?&rdquo; Cadmar looked up automatically and saw
the bird, hovering on the wind some distance off, too far for his
human vision to judge its size. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s that? A trained
falcon or suchlike?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just so, Your Grace. Jill always did have a way with
animals. No doubt she&rsquo;s riding off somewhere with its lure.
Or somewhat like that, anyway.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Whatever she thinks fit. Well, then, let&rsquo;s ride. My
lords, to the west!&rdquo;</p>

<p>All that morning the hawk led them onward. At times she circled
directly overhead, but only for brief moments, as if Jill were
ensuring that she had Rhodry&rsquo;s attention. Most of the time it
kept so far off that only elven eyes could spot it, but always, in
loops and lazy wind drifts, it moved steadily west and down, as the
hills round Cengarn fell toward the high plains. Gradually the
terrain opened up to rolling hills, scattered with trees at the
crests and thick with underbrush in the shallow valleys between. It
was good country for bandits, Rhodry thought. They could hide their
camps and their loot in among the scrubby brush, keep guards posted
on the open crests, and send scouts along them, too, when they
wanted to make a raid. He was blasted glad, he decided, that the
gwerbret and his men had dweomer on their side in this little game
of hide and seek.</p>

<p>As they rode, he had a chance to study the two lords riding just
ahead with the gwerbret. Gwinardd of Brin Coc was no more than
nineteen, come to the lordship just last year, or so the dun gossip
said, on the death of his father from a fever. Brown-haired and
bland, he seemed neither bright nor stupid, an ordinary sort of
fellow who was obviously devoted to the gwerbret. Matyc of Dun
Mawrvelin was another sort entirely. There might well have been
some elven blood in his clan&rsquo;s veins, because his hair was a
moonlight-pale blond, and his eyes a steel-gray, but he had none of
that race&rsquo;s openness or humor. His face, in fact, reminded
Rhodry of a mask carved from wood. All day long, he rarely frowned
and never smiled, merely seemed to watch and listen to everything
around him from some great distance away. Even when the gwerbret
spoke directly to him, he answered briefly&mdash;always polite, to
be sure&mdash;merely thrifty to a fault with his words.</p>

<p>Once, when the lords had drifted a fair bit ahead, Rhodry had a
chance at a word with Yraen.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What do you think of Matyc?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not much.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Keep your eye on him, will you? There&rsquo;s just
somewhat about him that makes me wonder.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wonder what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just how loyal he is to our grace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen&rsquo;s eyes widened with questions, but since the lords
ahead had paused to let their men catch up with them, he
couldn&rsquo;t ask them.</p>

<p>There were still some four hours left in the day when the
warbands reached the crest of a hill fringed with tall beeches.
Rhodry saw the hawk circle round once, then dip lazily down to
disappear into a scrubby stand of hazels in the valley below.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My lord?&rdquo; he called out. &ldquo;Jill seems to want
us to stop here. There&rsquo;s water for a camp. Shall I ride on
down and see if she&rsquo;s there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do that, silver dagger. We&rsquo;ll wait here for your
signal.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry dismounted, tossed his reins up to Yraen, then strode on
downhill on foot. Sure enough, he found Jill, in human form,
kneeling by the streamside and drinking out of cupped hands. Though
she was barefoot, she was wearing a thin tunic in the Bardek style
over a pair of brigga. An empty sack lay beside her on the ground.
It seemed to him that she was as light and fragile as the linen
cloth.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Aren&rsquo;t you cold?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not.&rdquo; Shaking her hands dry she stood up.
&ldquo;But I&rsquo;ll beg a blanket from you for tonight, truly.
The falcon can&rsquo;t carry much, you see.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No doubt.&rdquo; In spite of all the years that
he&rsquo;d lived around dweomer, Rhodry shuddered, just at how
casually she took her transformations. &ldquo;Ah, well, I take it
we&rsquo;re following the right road and all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just so. The raiders aren&rsquo;t all that far. I thought
the army could camp along this stream and rest their horses, then
mount a raid. They&rsquo;ve got guards on watch, of course, but no
doubt you could send some of Dar&rsquo;s men to silence
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No doubt.&rdquo; Rhodry smiled briefly. &ldquo;Let me
bring the others down, and then we&rsquo;ll have a little chat with
the gwerbret.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very well. Oh, and tell Cadmar to forbid any fires. I
don&rsquo;t want smoke giving our prey the alarm. I&rsquo;ll wait
until you&rsquo;ve made camp, and then I&rsquo;ll fetch you and his
grace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She gave him a friendly pat on the arm and headed off
downstream, disappearing into the trees and brush beyond the power
of even his elven eyes to pick her out. Dweomer, he supposed.
Swearing under his breath, Rhodry hurried back to the gwerbret and
the waiting army.</p>

<p>It turned out that the raiders were camped not five miles away.
When Jill reappeared, about an hour before sunset, she led Rhodry
and the gwerbret downstream for a ways, to the place where the
water tipped itself over the crest of the hill in a gurgle and
splash to rush down into a river far below. By peering through the
trees, they could see the river twisting, as gray and shiny as a
silver riband in the twilight, across a grassy plain. Far to the
west, a mist hung pink in the setting sun.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There!&rdquo; Rhodry said, pointing. &ldquo;Smoke from
campfires! Right by that big bend in the river off to the west,
Your Grace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t tell me there&rsquo;s elven blood in your
veins, silver dagger!&rdquo; Cadmar was shading his eyes with one
hand. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t see anything of the sort. Well,
I&rsquo;ll take your word for it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve scouted them out, Your Grace,&rdquo; Jill said.
&ldquo;About fifty men, all settled in by the river, as bold as
brass, in a proper camp with tents and everything. They&rsquo;ve
even got a couple of wagons with them. For loot, I
suppose.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cadmar swore under his breath.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, we&rsquo;ll cut them down to size soon enough. What
about the prisoners?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They seem to be tied and chained off by themselves,
between the camp proper and the wagons.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I say we ride before dawn. Won&rsquo;t be easy, riding at
night, but if we fall on them with the sun, we can wipe them out
like the vermin they are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Although Jill took the blanket and the food that Rhodry had
brought her, she refused to come back to camp with them. Rhodry
escorted the gwerbret back to Lord Gwinardd&rsquo;s side, then went
looking for Yraen. He found him with Lord Matyc, near the edge of
the camp. Since his lordship was telling Yraen a long involved
story about the bloodlines of some horses, Rhodry merely waited off
to one side. It seemed obvious that Matyc would have preferred to
cut the matter short, but Yraen kept asking such civil questions,
so very much to the point, that Matyc was forced to answer.
Finally, and by then the twilight had replaced the sunset, Yraen
thanked his lordship in a flood of courtesies and let him make his
escape. Rhodry waited while Matyc picked his way through the camp,
until be was well out of earshot.</p>

<p>&rdquo;What was all that about?&rdquo; Rhodry said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe naught, but you told me to keep an eye on him. So
after I spread our bedrolls out and suchlike, I went looking for
his lordship. He was just leaving camp, you see, over behind those
trees there, and I would have thought he needed to make water or
suchlike, except that he had his dagger out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He was holding it in one hand, but up, like he was
studying the blade. He&rsquo;d turn it, too, with a flick of his
wrist, like, and every time he did, it flashed, with light.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ye gods! You could signal a man that way, someone who
was off to the west when the sun was setting,&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Exactly what I thought, too.&rdquo; Yiaen&rsquo;s smile
was grim. &ldquo;We couldn&rsquo;t prove a thing, of course, and it
could, well be that I&rsquo;m dead wrong, and, it was just some nervous
twitch like men will get, to fiddle with his dagger that
way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It could be, truly.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But I thought, well, if it&rsquo;s nerves and naught
more, he&rsquo;ll feel better, won&rsquo;t he now, for a bit of
talk. So I kept him there, chatting about this and that till the
sun went down in the mists.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I were a great lord, I&rsquo;d have the best sice of
roast pig brought to your plate at the honor table
tonight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But things being what they are, let&rsquo;s go have some
flatbread and cheese. I&rsquo;m hungry enough to eat a wolf, pelt
and all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Later that evening Rhodry finally had a chance to speak with Dar
alone. Dar may have been a prince, but he was also one of the
Westfolk, and he went out to check on his horses himself rather
than leaving the task to one of his men. Rhodry saw him go and
followed him out to the herd, tethered down the valley.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s good to see you again,&rdquo; Dar spoke in
Elvish. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve all missed you, in the years since you
left us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And I&rsquo;ve missed the People as well. Are things well
with your father?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, yes, very well indeed. He&rsquo;s still traveling
with Calonderiel&rsquo;s alar, but I left it a while hack. I
can&rsquo;t say why. I just wanted to ride on my own for a while, I
suppose, and go from alar to alar, but Cal insisted on giving me
this escort.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Did he say why? It&rsquo;s not like the People, to give
someone an honor guard just as&mdash;well, just as an
honor.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In the dim starlight he could see the prince grinning.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s what I thought, too. But Cal said a dweomerwoman
had come to him in a dream and told him to do it, so he
did.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Dallandra?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That was her name, all right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry shuddered like a wet dog. Great things are moving,
indeed! he thought to himself. Dar looked away, a different kind of
smile hovering round his mouth.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What do you think of my Carramaena?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, she&rsquo;s lovely, and a good sensible
lass.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dar&rsquo;s grin deepened. He looked down and began scuffing the
grass with the toe of his boot.</p>

<p>&ldquo;But well, I hate to say this,&rdquo; Rhodry went on.
&ldquo;But haven&rsquo;t you let yourself and her in for grief? I
mean, you&rsquo;re young as the People reckon age, and you&rsquo;ll
live ten times her years.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to hear it!&rdquo; Dar looked up with
a snarl. &ldquo;Everyone says that, and I don&rsquo;t care!
We&rsquo;ll have what joy we can, then, and that&rsquo;s all there
is to that!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My apologies for&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, you&rsquo;re right, I suppose. But ye gods, from the
moment I saw her&mdash;she was so lovely, standing
there in the market, and she needed me so badly, with that wretched
brother of hers, and I just, well, I tried to talk myself out of
it, but I just kept riding back to see how she fared, to see if she
was well, and&mdash;&rdquo; He shrugged profoundly, &ldquo;And you
know what, Rhodry? She&rsquo;s the first grown lass I&rsquo;ve ever
met who was younger than me. There was just something fascinating
about that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry swore under his breath, but not for Dar&rsquo;s love
affair. The young prince had spoken the truth, that out among the
elves, young people were becoming the rarity. How long would it be,
he wondered, before the People were gone, and forever?</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, you two will have a fine daughter, anyway,&rdquo;
Rhodry said at last.</p>

<p>&ldquo;A daughter? How by the Dark Sun do you know?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Call it the second sight, lad, and let it go at that.
We&rsquo;d best get back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Some hours before dawn, the gwerbret&rsquo;s captain moved through the
camp, waking the men with whispers. In the fumbling dark they
armed themselves and saddled their horses, then rode out while it
was still too dark to move at more than a slow walk. Not more than
a few hundred yards from camp, Rhodry saw Jill, standing by the
side of the road and waiting for them. He pulled out of line and
went over to her, with Yraen tagging behind.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That horse can carry both of us, can&rsquo;t he?&rdquo; she
said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not like I&rsquo;m wearing mail or
suchlike.&rsquo;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ye gods, you don&rsquo;t weigh much more than a child
these days, or so it seems. Are you coming with
us?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;As a guide. Let me mount, and then let&rsquo;s go
ride with the noble-born.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry got down, settled her in the saddle proper, then swung up
behind her. As they were catching up to the army, he reminded Yraen
to watch Lord Matyc in the coming battle&mdash;if they were all
going to be riding together when the charge came, it might be just
possible for Yraen to keep him in sight. Jill led them
downhill and across the grassy plain by a roundabout way, keeping
to what cover there was.</p>

<p>Whether it was dweomer or only shrewd tracking, Rhodry
would never know, but it seemed to him that they reached the
bandit camp remarkably soon and ended up in a remarkably good
position, too, on a wooded rise behind the enemy&rsquo;s position
just out of earshot. From there, Dar sent four of his men ahead on
foot to take out the enemy guards. Just as the dawn was lightening
the sky, the four returned, grinning at how easy a job they&rsquo;d
had. Jill swung herself down from the saddle and let Rhodry regain
his place.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your Grace?&rdquo; she whispered to the gwerbret.
&ldquo;May the gods ride with you. I&rsquo;ll see you after the
battle.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Although she turned and jogged off back the way they&rsquo;d
come, Rhodry had no time to watch where she might be going. It
would be impossible to keep surprise on their side for more than a
few moments. When the gwerbret drew a javelin from the sheath
beneath his right leg, every man of the army did the same&mdash;with a horrendous jingling of tack.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go! Cadmar yelled.</p>

<p>The men kicked their horses to a trot and swept up the side of
the rise just as a ragged scream of panic burst out down in the
camp. The warband crested the rise like a wave and charged,
screaming war cries. They could see the enemy rushing round,
rolling free of blankets, grabbing for weapons. Behind the camp ran
the river, cutting off retreat. Off to the left, some hundred yards
away from the main camp, roped-together prisoners jumped to their
feet and started cheering and sobbing out the gwerbret&rsquo;s
name. To the light, at about the same distance, panicked horses
began to neigh and rear.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Throw!&rdquo; Cadmar yelled.</p>

<p>A shower of steel-tipped javelins flashed ahead of the charge
and swooped down among the scurrying bandits. With a rush and
whisper elven hunting arrows rained down from the side. Rhodry saw
a few hits but what he was hoping for was panic, and panic was
what he got. Screaming, shoving one another, the bandits milled
around and grabbed at weapons. Dashing among them, wrapped in a
cloak, was an impossibly tall man, waving a sword and howling
orders. No one listened. The bandits broke and ran as the warband
swept down upon them with drawn swords. Leaning, slashing, the
riders raced through the camp, pulled up, and parted like water
round a rock to turn at the riverbank and gallop back again. Here
and there a few desperate men were making a stand, but most were
running. Some, swords drawn and ready, were heading for the
prisoners.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Cut them off!&rdquo; Rhodry howled it out, then gave his
voice over to his bubbling berserk laugh.</p>

<p>With a squad behind him he raced at an angle toward the would-be
murderers, and now he was riding to dodge anything in his way.
Swords flashed to meet him; he swung down as he passed. Ahead, the
little pack of bandits heard hooves and turned to make their stand.
The squad hit them in full slaughter. Rhodry&rsquo;s horse suddenly
screamed and reared. He brought it down, rolled off as it fell to
its knees, and struck up, killing the man who was swinging down at
him. Somewhere Yraen was yelling at him, but Rhodry could only
laugh. He grabbed another man&rsquo;s shield from the ground and
slashed another bandit across the knees. When the man fell,
screaming, Rhodry scrambled to his feet and killed him, stabbing
him through the throat,</p>

<p>Yraen&rsquo;s words finally forced their way through to
his mind. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve got this lot! The leader&rsquo;s trying to
escape.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yraen was waving his sword, red and blooded, in the general
direction of the wagons, which were standing behind the
prisoners. With the squad following him like a captain, Rhodry raced
off, dodging round the sobbing women and children, seeing his
enemy&rsquo;s cloak flash and flutter just ahead as he dodged
through the carts and leaning wagon trees. Although there were a
couple of horses tethered beyond, the leader would never reach them
in time. Huge as he was, he was clumsy on the ground, so bowlegged
that he was waddling more than running.</p>

<p>The leader swirled to face them, and as he turned, he
tore off his cloak and whipped it round and round one
massive forearm, an improvised shield. The men behind
Rhodry howled, half a shriek, half a war cry, and even Rhodry
himself hesitated for the trace of a moment, just long
enough for their enemy to get his back against a wagon. This was no
human being that they were facing;. By some visual trick, without
the enveloping cloak he seemed even larger, well over six feet
tall, perhaps even a bit over seven, his height crowned by a huge
mane of hair as stiff as any Dawntime hero&rsquo;s&mdash;indeed, it
seemed to have been bleached out with lime in just that way, so
that it rose stiff and dead-pale straight from his black eyebrows
and poured up and over his back like a waterfall. His face might
have been any color naturally, because blue, purple, and green
tattoos covered it so thickly you couldn&rsquo;t see a trace of
skin. His massive hands bore red and purple tattoos like gloves. He
drew back thin lips from white teeth, fanged like a wolf&rsquo;s mouth,
and snarled.</p>

<p>Rhodry started to laugh.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Get back!&rdquo; he choked out between howls of
demon-mirth. &ldquo;Get back and leave him to me!&rdquo;</p>

<p>He might have been only a silver dagger, but every man behind
him followed his order gladly. His opponent laughed as well, a
rumble under his breath. He jumped to the wagon bed and dropped to
a fighting crouch.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shield you got, man. But I got taller.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And a fair fight it is, then.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Even though he was chortling like a mad ferret, Rhodry&rsquo;s
mind was icy calm, telling him that the victory in this scrap
depended on the strength of his left arm. He was going to have to
hold his shield up high, like one of those sunshades the fine court
ladies in Dun Deverry sported, and pray it held against the
other&rsquo;s blows. With the shield low he feinted in, slowly it
seemed to him, oh, so slowly moving cross the uneven ground, saw a
glint of steel moving, swung up the shield and caught the huge
blade full on the boss. The brass plate sliced like butter; the
blade stuck, just for the briefest of moments, but Rhodry got a
hard stab on his enemy&rsquo;s upper arm. Blood spurted thick and
flowed slowly, oh, so slowly, down the sleeve.</p>

<p>Rhodry danced back just in time as the leader sliced backhanded
in a blow that would have gutted him had it landed. For a moment
they panted for breath, glaring at each other; then Rhodry began
sidling toward his opponent&rsquo;s left. Caught as he was against
the wagon protecting his back, the other was forced to turn
slightly&mdash;then all at once lunged. Just in time Rhodry flung
up his shield, heard the wood crack in half, and stabbed as fast
and as hard as he could. Later he would realize that this stab had
been his last and only chance, but as the pieces of shield fell
away from the handle he knew only laughter, welling out of him like
a tide of fire as he thrust with every bit of strength and skill he
possessed. The enormous sword swung up over his head, hovered
there, trembled down, then fell from a dying hand as his opponent
grunted once and crumpled over Rhodry&rsquo;s sword, buried in his
guts. When Rhodry pulled it free, he realized that blind instinct
had made him angle the blade. Dark heart&rsquo;s blood gushed out
with the steel.</p>

<p>As the berserk mist cleared, Rhodry staggered back, gulping for
breath, sweating rivers down his back, half-dizzy, half-dazed,
unsure for that moment exactly where he was or what fight
he&rsquo;d just won. All round him he heard cheers and shouting,
managed to recognize Cadmar&rsquo;s bellow as the gwerbret shoved
his way through what proved to be a crowd.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, may Great Bel preserve us,&rdquo; the gwerbret
whispered. &ldquo;What is that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t know, Your Grace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>For a moment, while he got his breath back, Rhodry studied his
dead enemy&rsquo;s face and got his second shock of the day. The
tattoo designs were all elven. He&rsquo;d seen many like them on
horse gear and painted tents out in the Westlands: animal forms,
floral vines, and even, here and there, a letter or two from the
Elvish syllabary.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let Jill through,&rdquo; Cadmar was yelling. &ldquo;Ye
gods, someone get our Rhodry some water,&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill, it turned out, was carrying a skin of just that. She
handed it over, then stood for a long time staring down at the
corpse. In the bright sun Rhodry was struck again by how thin her
face was, all pale stretched skin and fine bone, as delicate as a
bird&rsquo;s wing. He gulped water down while she went on with her
study of the dead man.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was afraid of this,&rdquo; she said at last.
&ldquo;He&rsquo;s exactly what I thought he&rsquo;d be.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Indeed?&rdquo; Cadmar said. &ldquo;And would you mind telling
us what that is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not at all, Your Grace.&rdquo; She reached into her shirt
and took out a stained and faded silk pouch, opened that, and
handed over a thin bone plaque, a square about three inches on a
side.</p>

<p>Rhodry stepped round to peer over the gwerbret&rsquo;s shoulder.
The plaque sported a picture, graved into the yellowed bone and
stained with traces of color. Once, he supposed, the portrait had
been as vivid as a flower garden, but even his utterly untrained
eye perceived it as ancient, older than anything he&rsquo;d ever
seen, older, perhaps, than the kingdom itself. In such a skilled
drawing that every hair, every fold of cloth, seemed real and
tangible, the picture displayed the head and shoulders of a being
much like the one that lay dead at their feet: the same mane of
hair, the same ridged face and heavy jaw, but while indeed this
face was tattooed, the marks were only rough lines and dots. Cadmar
swore under his breath.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill, where did you get this? What are these
creatures?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I got it far south of Bardek, Your Grace, on an island
where some of the Westfolk live. As for what, well, the elves call
them Meradan, demons, but their own name for themselves is Gel
da&rsquo;Thae: the Horsekin.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All the old stories he&rsquo;d been trying to remember rose to
the surface of Rhodry&rsquo;s mind.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Hordes!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just that, silver dagger.&rdquo; Jill smiled, a brief
twitch of her mouth, &rdquo;His grace doubtless remembers those old
tales about the cities of the Westfolk, the ones destroyed back in
the Dawntime by demons? Well, destroyed they were, but by real
flesh and blood.&rdquo; She nudged the corpse with her foot.
&ldquo;This flesh and blood, Your Grace. Huh, they don&rsquo;t
seemed to have changed a great deal, have they? They&rsquo;ve
learned a good bit about tattooing, that&rsquo;s all. They&rsquo;re
still as bloodthirsty.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cadmar nodded, his mouth grim, and handed back the bit of
bone.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And they&rsquo;ve come east,&rdquo; Rhodry put in.
&ldquo;That bodes ill.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You always had a gift for understatement, didn&rsquo;t
you?&rdquo; Jill was putting the plaque away.</p>

<p>&ldquo;But what do they want?&rdquo; Cadmar said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t know for certain, but I&rsquo;ll wager
it&rsquo;s the same things they&rsquo;ve always wanted: land,
slaves, jewelry and other such trinkets.&rdquo; Jill looked up at
last. &ldquo;Look at his hands, Your Grace. See how some of his
fingers have been cut off? Their warriors do that to themselves,
you see, so they&rsquo;ll be fit for no craft but war.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cadmar shuddered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And how do you know all this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I read it in an elven book, written by one of the
survivors of the Great Burning. That&rsquo;s what they call the
fall of the cities. It was over a thousand years ago now, but the
elves remember it, clear as clear. I wish I could have brought you
this book, for your scribe to read aloud in your hall. You and your
men need to know what we&rsquo;re facing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cadmar threw up his head like a startled stag. Rhodry laughed
aloud.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, my lady Death&rsquo;s in for a fine time of it now.
Her dun will fill with her guests, her tables feast thousands.
That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re saying, isn&rsquo;t it,
Jill?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am. Your Grace, I pray to every god in the sky and
under the earth that I&rsquo;m wrong, but in my heart I know that the
worst war that ever the Westlands have seen lies ahead of
us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And soon?&rdquo; the gwerbret said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It will be, Your Grace. Very soon.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rhodry threw back his head and howled with laughter, choking and
bubbling out of his very soul. All through the shattered camp the
warband fell dead-silent to listen, and not a man there felt his
blood run anything but cold.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">With all the prisoners and suchlike, it took the warband two
full days to ride home. With Otho and a squad of dwarven axmen
standing around her, Carra was waiting at the gates of
Cadmar&rsquo;s dun when they walked their horses up the hill. At
first, in the dust and confusion, she found it impossible to tell
one man from another, and her heart began pounding in dread, but
Dar broke free of the pack at last and ran to her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thank every god in the sky!&rdquo; She flung herself into
his arms. While she sniveled into his filthy shirt, he stroked her
hair.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Here, here, my love! I&rsquo;m home safe again, just like
I promised you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otho snorted profoundly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Egotistical young dolt,&rdquo; he remarked in a
conversational tone of voice. &ldquo;Wasn&rsquo;t you we were
worried about.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; Dar let her go and turned to confront the
dwarf. &ldquo;What are you saying, old man?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m saying what I said, you stupid elven fop. Someone
tried to kill your wife while you were running around the
countryside playing warrior.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dar went dead-still.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, but they didn&rsquo;t,&rdquo; Carra said. &ldquo;I
mean, that sounds stupid, but Otho and his men have kept me safe,
really they have.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And for that they&rsquo;ll have my undying
thanks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She had never heard Dar speak like that, so low, so still, each
word careful and distinct, and now he was trembling in rage.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where&rsquo;s the man who tried to harm her?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t know, Your Highness.&rdquo; Otho&rsquo;s
manner changed abruptly. &ldquo;He did it by stealth, and we
couldn&rsquo;t catch him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;When we do, I&rsquo;ll kill him with my own hands.&rdquo;
He threw one arm around Carra&rsquo;s shoulders and pulled her
close. &ldquo;Name your reward.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otho thought for a good long minute, then sighed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;None needed, Your Highness. We were glad to serve your
lady. But someday, mayhap, we&rsquo;ll remember this, and call in a
favor done.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All around them men were dismounting in a welter of confusion.
Pages and stableboys came running to take horses and unload gear,
warriors strode by, heading for the great hall and ale. Dar&rsquo;s
archers gathered round like a dun wall to shut their little group
off from the potentially dangerous commotion.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is Jill with you?&rdquo; Carra said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Wise One?&rdquo; Dar said. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s not.
She left us before we reached the city. There&rsquo;s Rhodry,
though. Look, right behind him, see that horse Yraen&rsquo;s
leading? We captured him from the raiders. He belonged to their
leader.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra looked, then caught her breath in a little gasp. Never had
she seen such an enormous animal, fully eighteen hands high and
broad, too, with a deep chest and huge arch of neck. A blood bay
with white mane and tail, he walked solemnly, gravely, planting
each big foot down as if he knew that everyone watched him. Rhodry
turned his own horse over to a page, then worked his way free of
the mob to join them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Otho,&rdquo; Rhodry said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve a bone to
pick with you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You remembered, did you?&rdquo; Otho looked sour.
&ldquo;Well, I owe you your hire, I suppose, though with all the
trouble you got me into, that ambush at the ford and all, I
don&rsquo;t see why I should pay you one blasted coin.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Because if you&rsquo;d ridden north without me and Yraen,
you&rsquo;d have been dead long before you reached the cursed
ford.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That has a certain logic to it, truly. Well, I&rsquo;ve
got the coin back at my inn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. Make sure you fetch it, then.&rdquo;</p>

<p>And Carra was honestly shocked that a man like Rhodry, whom she
was starting to consider as fine and noble as any man in the
kingdom, would worry about a handful of coin.</p>

<p>That night in the great hall the gwerbret held a feast for their
victory, and his lady made sure that it also served to solemnize
Carra&rsquo;s wedding in the human way. Before the bard sang his
praise-song for the raid and the true drinking began, the gwerbret
himself made a fine flowery speech and toasted the young couple
with a goblet of mead. The bard performed a solemn declamation,
cobbled together from other occasions, perhaps, but elegant all the
same. Their arms twined round each other, Carra and Dar took turns
drinking mead from a real glass goblet, traded all the way north
from Bardek through Aberwyn. Although custom demanded that they
smash the thing, it was far too valuable, and besides, as Carra
pointed out to her new husband, she certainly wasn&rsquo;t a virgin
anymore anyway. With a laugh Dar agreed and handed the goblet back
unharmed to the hovering seneschal.</p>

<p>Later, after the bardsong and the assigning of praise, after the
mead and the feasting, the gwerbret called for music, and there was
dancing, the circle dances of the border, half-elven, half-human,
stepped out to harp and drum. For the ritual of the thing, Carra
danced one with Dar, then sat down again beside the
gwerbret&rsquo;s wife, who caught her hand and squeezed it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You have my thanks, my lady,&rdquo; Carra said.
&ldquo;For honoring me this way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;re most welcome, and truly, I thought
we&rsquo;d best take our merriment while we can.&rdquo;
Labanna&rsquo;s dark eyes turned haunted. &ldquo;The omens are
poor, and the news worse.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Carra nodded, moving instinctively a little closer to her. Out
in the center of the great hall, the music pounded on, and the
dancers moved gravely, circling round and round. In her grim mood
it seemed that they were weaving an immense and ancient spell
rather than celebrating an event as common as a wedding. Yet, even
over the music, when Carra turned toward the window she heard or
thought she heard the harsh cry of a hawk, as if some huge bird
drifted overhead on the rising night wind.</p>
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide7.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide9.html">next</a>
</small></div>
</body>
</html>

