<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Dawn of Amber</title>
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="amber.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide19.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide21.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">EIGHTEEN</h2>

<p>I swallowed. &ldquo;It can&rsquo;t be as bad as all
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why not?&rdquo; I had no answer.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll tell Freda,&rdquo; I said, starting for the
door. &ldquo;Perhaps she&rsquo;ll know what to do.&rdquo; He gave a
curt nod.</p>

<p>I left him there, seated at one of his work tables, just staring
into space. I had never seen him like this before, and it tore me
up inside. How could he have let it come to this? How could he have
become so helpless so suddenly? It didn&rsquo;t take me long to
find Freda; she still stood at one of the windows in the audience
hall, staring up at the sky. Aber and most of the others were still
there as well.</p>

<p>The black cloud, I saw, had doubled in size, and it swirled
faster than before. Blue flashes and the constant flicker of
lightning gave it a sinister appearance.</p>

<p>I touched Freda&rsquo;s arm and motioned for her to follow me.
She gave one last look at the sky, then we went off to the side,
where we could talk without being heard.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What happened?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;Is he
gone?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo; Quickly I told her what we had discovered.
&ldquo;I thought you might be able to do something.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She shook her head. &ldquo;I have not been able to use my Trumps
since this morning. I started to tell you when we were in your
room. I wanted you to shuffle them&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I
thought I had done something to cause the problem.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It had begun even then?&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Before the
cloud?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Apparently. Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then maybe the cloud isn&rsquo;t the cause. Maybe
it&rsquo;s something else.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Like what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shrugged. &ldquo;You and Dad are the experts. Is there a
device that could cause it? If so, could it be hidden here, inside
the castle?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not that I know of,&rdquo; she said.</p>

<p>I sighed. &ldquo;So much for that idea. I thought Ivinius or our
unknown traitor might have smuggled something into
Juniper.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Still&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;it is possible, I
suppose. I will organize a search, just to make sure.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why don&rsquo;t you ask Blaise to do it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She looked at me in surprise. &ldquo;Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She&rsquo;s already in charge of the servants. She can
put them to work.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You ask her, then. I cannot, after what she accused me
of.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I looked into her eyes. &ldquo;Trust none of them, but love them
all?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She sighed and looked away. &ldquo;Advice is easier when given
than taken,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Very well, I will talk to
her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Turning, she headed back to the window. I saw her pull Blaise
aside, and they began to talk in low voices. Since no blows were
exchanged, I assumed the best. In a life-or-death situation, even
bitter enemies would work together to save themselves.</p>

<p>I went outside, into the main courtyard. The cloud had grown
large enough to blot out the sun and most of its light, and a hazy
sort of twilight settled over everything. Guards hurried across the
courtyard, lighting torches. I knew without doubt that something
huge and terrible was about to break over us. I think we all
did.</p>

<p>Well, let it come. I gave a silent toast to inevitability. The
sooner it came, the sooner we could act against it.</p>

<p>Without warning, a tremendous flash lit the courtyard, followed
by a deafening <em>crack</em> of thunder. Tiny bits of rock rained
down on me, followed by a choking cloud of dust. Then a block of
stone as big as my head hit the paving stones ten feet from where I
stood, shattering. I reeled back, coughing and choking, eyes
stinging and tearing.</p>

<p>Screams sounded from inside the castle. It took me a second to
realize what had happened&mdash;lightning had struck the top
floor.</p>

<p>I ran for the steps to the battlements, knowing I&rsquo;d be
safer there than out in the open. The real danger lay in falling
stones, not being struck by lightning. Somehow, I had a feeling
this one had been the first of many to come.</p>

<p>Gaining the top of the battlements, I looked out across the army
camp. Men by the thousands worked frantically, packing gear,
pulling up wooden stakes and folding tents, herding animals. I
spotted Locke on horseback, directing their movements. He seemed to
be directing everyone within two hundred yards of the castle away
to the empty fields by the forest where the hell-creatures had been
spying on us.</p>

<p>Another blast of lightning came, then a third. Each struck the
castle&rsquo;s highest tower, cracking stone blocks and roof tiles.
Debris rained down. Luckily no one was injured or killed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Close the gates!&rdquo; I called down to the guards on
duty. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t let anyone in except Locke or Davin!
It&rsquo;s too dangerous!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, Lord!&rdquo; one of them called up, and two of them
began to swing the heavy gates shut.</p>

<p>I went back down to the courtyard, waited for the next bolts of
lightning to strike and the debris to fall, then sprinted across
the courtyard and into the audience hall.</p>

<p>It was deserted. Two of the windows had broken, and I saw blood
on the floor&mdash;someone had been cut by flying glass, I
thought.</p>

<p>I spotted servants moving in the hallway, and I hurried to see
what they were doing. Anari, it turned out, had taken
Dworkin&rsquo;s orders to heart and had begun moving all the
castle&rsquo;s beds and bedding to the ground floor. Servants would
sleep in the grand ballroom. My sisters would share the dining
hall. My brothers and I would have one of the lesser
halls&mdash;one with no windows. Hopefully the lightning would stop
or the castle would withstand its blasts through the morning.</p>

<p>I caught sight of Aber, who was supervising two servants as they
carried an immense wooden chest down the stairs, and I strode over
to join him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who got hurt in the audience hall?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Conner,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;A section of the glass
fell in on him. His face and hands are cut up, but he&rsquo;ll
live.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s good news,&rdquo; I said.
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s in the trunk?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My set of Trumps. And a few other precious items I
don&rsquo;t want to lose. I thought I&rsquo;d store them down here
until we leave. We <em>are</em> leaving, aren&rsquo;t
we?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I smiled bleakly. &ldquo;What happened to your faith in Dad,
Locke, and me? I thought you planned to sit tight until we killed
everyone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>His voice dropped to a whisper. &ldquo;No offense, brother, but
have you noticed what we&rsquo;re up against? We won&rsquo;t be
alive to fight if we don&rsquo;t get out of here, and soon.
They&rsquo;re bringing the castle down on our heads!&rdquo;</p>

<p>A particularly loud <em>crack!</em> sounded outside as if to
underscore his words. The castle shook, and I heard the low rumble
of falling stones.</p>

<p>He might have a point, I thought. But the castle walls grew
stronger the closer you got to the foundations. It wouldn&rsquo;t
be easy to destroy Juniper.</p>

<p>&ldquo;In case you missed it,&rdquo; I told him, &ldquo;our
Trumps aren&rsquo;t working anymore. We <em>can&rsquo;t</em> go
anywhere. It&rsquo;s time to stand and fight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; He paled. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re wrong! The
Trumps always work!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Try one,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;and you&rsquo;ll see.
Neither Freda, Dad, nor I could get them to work.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The servants carrying the trunk had reached the bottom of the
stairs, and he motioned for them to set it down. They did so, and
he flipped open its lid. I peered over his shoulder and saw stacks
of cards&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;there had to be hundreds of
them.</p>

<p>He picked up the top one, which showed
<em>me&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</em> it was the same card
he&rsquo;d been painting in his room earlier.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you mind?&rdquo; he asked me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Go ahead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He stared at it intently, frowning, but I felt no sense of
contact. From his frustrated expression, I knew it wasn&rsquo;t
working for him, either.</p>

<p>With a low moan, he dropped his arm and looked at me. His face
had gone ashen; his hand trembled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry,&rdquo; I said. I felt a little guilty
for having him try the Trump when I&rsquo;d known it wouldn&rsquo;t
work. Making Trumps seemed to be his one great talent, and it had
been rendered useless right now.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t believe it,&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;ll think of something else,&rdquo; I said with
more confidence than I felt. &ldquo;Dad has whole rooms full of
magical stuff. He must have something that can help us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Aber tossed the card back into the trunk, then slammed down the
lid. Motioning for the two men to pick it up again, he told them to
put it with the rest of his belongings. They started off down the
hall.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; he told me philosophically,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll just have to fall back on my other plan, I
suppose.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s that?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hide until the danger&rsquo;s past!&rdquo;</p>

<p>I laughed, and he gave me a weak smile. At least he still had
his sense of humor.</p>

<p>The lightning stopped half an hour later, with the coming of
night, but I suspected it was a temporary reprieve. Perhaps whoever
had sent the cloud needed daylight to direct his attack. I had
little doubt but that the blasts would resume at dawn.</p>

<p>Our father remained locked in his workshop, leaving the rest of
us to care for the castle. It was late by the time we had everyone
bedded down for the night, from family to servants. The guards
bravely walking the battlements were the only ones outside.</p>

<p>Freda, Blaise, and I retired to the audience hall, waiting for
Locke and Davin to return. We didn&rsquo;t have much to say to each
other, but the company was better than being alone.</p>

<p>The silence outside seemed ominous.</p>

<p>Finally, toward midnight, I heard horses in the courtyard and
rose to check.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s Locke and Davin,&rdquo; I told my sisters.</p>

<p>&ldquo;About time,&rdquo; Blaise murmured.</p>

<p>Locke left the horses with Davin and hurried inside. He looked
grim when he saw us.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What news?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The men are now a safe distance from the castle,&rdquo;
he said. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think the lightning will reach them.
What have I missed? Where&rsquo;s Dad?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Locked in his rooms,&rdquo; I said unhappily.
&ldquo;He&rsquo;s not answering to knocks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Freda added, &ldquo;We moved everyone to ground level, and they
are settled for the night.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I saw the lightning strikes,&rdquo; he said.
&ldquo;Perhaps we should move everyone out to the fields as soon as
possible.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think that would be a mistake,&rdquo; I said.
&ldquo;They&rsquo;re trying to drive us into the open. Despite the
lightning, we&rsquo;re better off in here. Although the top towers
will fall, the closer the walls get to the ground, the stronger
they become. We&rsquo;ll be all right for a while yet.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you&rsquo;re going back out tomorrow morning,&rdquo; I
said, &ldquo;you might want to do it before daybreak. I think
darkness stopped the lightning.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I will.&rdquo; He glanced around. &ldquo;Where are we
camped out tonight?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I rose. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll show you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My sleep was deep and restful, for once. Even though I shared
the chamber with a dozen others, most of whom snored, exhaustion
took me. No bad dreams plagued me, no visions of evil serpents or
dying men on stone altars, no skies of ever-shifting patterns nor
towers made of human bones.</p>

<p>I woke a little before dawn, listening to the first stirrings of
life, thinking back to events of the previous night. It seemed
unreal, somehow, almost like a bad dream. Clouds didn&rsquo;t swirl
in the sky, loosing thunderbolts upon helpless people. It seemed
impossible, and yet I knew it had happened.</p>

<p>A silent figure crept into the room. I tensed, hand reaching for
my sword. It was one of the castle guards. Another assassin?</p>

<p>Silently, like a ghost, he padded to Locke&rsquo;s side. I
prepared to shout a warning and launch myself at him, but he only
stretched out his hand and shook his general&rsquo;s shoulder.</p>

<p>Locke came awake with a start.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You asked me to fetch you before dawn, General,&rdquo;
the man said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very well,&rdquo; he said softly. &ldquo;Wake
Davin.&rdquo; Rising, he began to dress.</p>

<p>I too sat up, stretching. My muscles ached a bit from my workout
the previous afternoon, but I felt much
refreshed&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;ready to fight, if need be, to
protect Juniper. The hell-creatures would not take the castle
easily, I vowed. I began to dress, too.</p>

<p>Locke picked up his boots, noticed me, and gave a quick jerk of
his head toward the door. Rising, I grabbed my own boots and
followed him out. We headed toward our father&rsquo;s workshop.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What are your plans for today?&rdquo; I asked when he
paused to pull on his boots. I took a moment to do the same.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Prepare the men for battle,&rdquo; he said grimly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think it will come today.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why not?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why rush? Let the lightning work on our
morale.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re right. That&rsquo;s what I would
do, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We headed for our father&rsquo;s rooms again, but the guards
there lowered their pikes, blocking our way.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Apologies, my Lords,&rdquo; said the guard on duty with
an audible gulp. &ldquo;Prince Dworkin said not to let anyone
disturb him. Not even you, General.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Locked sighed. &ldquo;I know you are only doing your
duty,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;But I must do mine as well.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He hit the man twice, fast and hard, with the flat of his hand;
the poor fellow slumped to the floor. It happened before the other
guard could so much as move.</p>

<p>Locke glared across at him. &ldquo;Remove your friend,&rdquo; he
said, &ldquo;or I will remove you both.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It means my life, Lord,&rdquo; the man pleaded, eyes wide
and desperate. He barred the way with his pike and raised his chin,
then pressed his eyes shut. &ldquo;If you please.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Locke nodded. Then he hit him twice, too, and when he slid to
the floor, Locke and I stepped over the bodies. We had gone well
beyond the point of fooling around.</p>

<p>Dworkin had left the door unbarred, so we didn&rsquo;t have to
kick it in. Locke glanced over at me, then pushed it open and
entered.</p>

<p>Our father sat with his head down on the table nearest us,
snoring. Three large bottles sat before him. Two had been
completely emptied, plus half of the third,</p>

<p>I picked up the half bottle, sniffed once, set it down.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Brandy,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Dad! Wake up!&rdquo; Locke shook his shoulder.</p>

<p>Dworkin lolled to the side and would have fallen to the floor if
I hadn&rsquo;t reached out to steady him. We didn&rsquo;t get to
much as a whimper. He was dead to the world.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Typical,&rdquo; Locke said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s done this before?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Once that I know of, when he got kicked out of the Courts
of Chaos.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Kicked out? Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s not exactly how he tells it. He
usually says he left because he grew tired of life in the Courts.
But I know the truth. He forgets that I was there, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I leaned forward. &ldquo;What really happened? Every time
someone tells me, I get a different story.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The truth?&rdquo; He gave a sad smile. &ldquo;He seduced
King Uthor&rsquo;s youngest and favorite daughter. Got her with
child, in fact. Once that happened, it was hard to hide their
involvement.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Couldn&rsquo;t he have married her?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Unfortunately, she was already betrothed. Had been, in
fact, since birth. Dworkin knew that, too, and he didn&rsquo;t
care.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;all this could be King
Uthor&rsquo;s doing?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Could be?&rdquo; He chuckled. &ldquo;Oh, Uthor may not be
leading the attack, but I see his hand in it. I had hoped we could
outrun or outlast him. He is old. And all this happened forty years
ago, as time goes in the Courts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Forty years&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;long before my birth. I
stared down at our father&rsquo;s unconscious form. If Locke told
the truth&mdash;and I believed him; why should he lie?&mdash;then
Dad had brought ruin upon himself. And upon the rest of us.</p>

<p>I pushed him back onto the table. He could sleep off his drunk
there. Foolish, foolish man.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Leave him,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t mind,
I&rsquo;ll accompany you today. I don&rsquo;t want to spend the day
in the castle, listening to falling rock. And if I get a chance to
swing my blade a few more times in the right
direction&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right.&rdquo; He chuckled humorlessly.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure we can find something for you to
do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The grooms had emptied the stables during the night. Our horses
were penned with the cavalry&rsquo;s mounts outside in the main
camp. Davin joined us in the courtyard, now littered with fallen
stone, and together the three of us walked out toward the military
camp.</p>

<p>The sky grew lighter. I saw that the clouds still swirled
endlessly overhead.</p>

<p>Halfway to the army camp, the lightning started again behind us.
I glanced over my shoulder at the castle, as bolt after bolt of
blue lanced from the sky, striking the tallest towers. More stones
fell, raising clouds of dust. I didn&rsquo;t envy those still
inside. I knew it wouldn&rsquo;t be a pleasant day for them.</p>

<p>Ahead, horns began to sound.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s an attack!&rdquo; Locke cried, recognizing
the call to arms and sprinting for the pens of horses.</p>

<p>Davin and I followed on his heels.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide19.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide21.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

