<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Dawn of Amber</title>
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="amber.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide15.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide17.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">FOURTEEN</h2>

<p>I don&rsquo;t know how long I slept, but when I finally awoke
the next day, I felt groggy and out of sorts with the world.
Dworkin had vanished. Slowly I sat up, stretched, rubbed my eyes,
and I climbed unsteadily to my feet. My muscles ached and my head
pounded.</p>

<p>I wandered out of the workshop, past two new guards on duty in
the corridor, and into the banquet hall. Perhaps food would help, I
thought.</p>

<p>Blaise and a couple of women I&rsquo;d never seen before were
eating what looked like a cold lunch at one end of the table. I
nodded politely to them, but took my own meal at the other end.
They barely seemed to notice me, going on about various people
I&rsquo;d never heard of.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How may I serve you, Lord?&rdquo; a servant asked,
appearing at my side.</p>

<p>&ldquo;A bloody steak, half a dozen fried eggs, and
beer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, Lord.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He returned five minutes later with plates filled with the food
I&rsquo;d ordered, plus a basket of fresh bread, a cake of butter,
a salt cellar, and a large bowl piled high with fruit. I recognized
apples and pears, but most of the others&mdash;strange knobbed
balls of green and yellow, mottled reddish-orange blades, and puffy
white globes the size of my fist&mdash;I had never before seen.</p>

<p>I ate in silence, thinking back to events of the previous day.
It all seemed distant and unreal, as though someone else had
voyaged to Ilerium. And yet I could still hear King Elnar and his
lieutenants&rsquo; voices&mdash;</p>

<p><em>Traitor!</em></p>

<p><em>Murderer!</em></p>

<p><em>Assassin!</em></p>

<p>It sent a cold knife through my heart.</p>

<p>After eating, I felt much like my old self. I had slept well
past noon, I realized. I couldn&rsquo;t spend the whole day
lounging around the castle, so I went in search of Anari. He had
set up a whole day of appointments for me with tailors and the
like, but unfortunately, between Dad and everything else, I
hadn&rsquo;t kept a single one. Perhaps, I thought, he could
reschedule them for later.</p>

<p>I finally found him in a small room off the audience chamber,
looking over reports and making staff assignments. He greeted me
warmly when I walked in.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I trust you are satisfied with young Horace, Lord?&rdquo;
he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Quite satisfied,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;He seems able and
enthusiastic. I have no complaints.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am happy to hear it.&rdquo; He smiled, and I thought
the news genuinely pleased him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you know where my father is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Prince Dworkin has gone to inspect troops with Lord Locke
and Lord Davin. They should return before dinner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah.&rdquo; I couldn&rsquo;t expect Dworkin to neglect his
duties and wait for me, I supposed. Still, I&rsquo;d hoped he would
still be here.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What of the tailors?&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
afraid I missed all the appointments.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He consulted a set of papers on the desk before him. &ldquo;I
believe&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;yes, they are with Lady Blaise
now,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;She is selecting fabrics for new
officers&rsquo; uniforms. That should take most of the afternoon.
Will tomorrow morning be soon enough for you to see
them?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; I could always borrow more of Mattus&rsquo;s
wardrobe, as needed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very good, my Lord.&rdquo; He dipped a quill pen in ink
and made a note of it. His handwriting, I noticed, was thin and
ornate.</p>

<p>I continued, &ldquo;Is there a workout yard in the
castle?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course, Lord Oberon. Master Berushk will be at your
service.&rdquo; He motioned to a page of perhaps nine or ten years,
who wore castle livery and stood attentively by the door.
&ldquo;Show Lord Oberon to the workout yard,&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, sir,&rdquo; the page said.</p>

<p>The boy led me outside to the front courtyard, with its broad
flagstones, and then we passed through a small rose garden. The
gate on the far side opened onto an enclosed courtyard perhaps
fifty feet square. This had to be the place, I thought, looking at
the practice dummies, racks of swords and other weapons. It even
had a pivoting drill machine with wooden arms and swords.</p>

<p>Two men, stripped to the waist, now fought there with swords and
knives, pivoting and thrusting, parrying and riposting. A third
man, older and much scarred on his hands and face, looked on
critically.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This is it, Lord,&rdquo; the page said to me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thanks. You may go.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, Lord.&rdquo; Bowing, he ran back the way we had
come.</p>

<p>I turned my attention to the fighters, whom I now recognized as
my half brothers Titus and Conner. They were workmanlike at best in
their swordsmanship, I decided.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hold!&rdquo; the third man said. Titus and Conner drew up
short, panting and sweating.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re letting your guards down again,&rdquo; he
said to both of them. I silently agreed with his assessment.
&ldquo;You cannot count on your opponent being as tired as you are.
In a real battle, such mistakes would cost you your
lives.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I pushed open the gate and went in. They all paused to look at
me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who is this?&rdquo; Berushk asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oberon, our brother,&rdquo; Titus&mdash;or was it
Conner?&mdash;said to him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Another soft and useless child?&rdquo; said the
weapons-master with a sneer, giving me a dismissive look from head
to heel. &ldquo;Well, young Oberon, I haven&rsquo;t seen you here
before. Are you lost on your stroll through the roses? Off with
you, and leave swordplay to real men.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I had to laugh. King Elnar&rsquo;s weapons-master had used
almost exactly the same insults the first time we&rsquo;d met. My
temper had been hotter in those days, and as a fresh young officer,
I&rsquo;d had a lot to prove. Of course, I&rsquo;d taken offense,
drawn my blade, and demanded a fight on the spot. He&rsquo;d
obliged&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;and I&rsquo;d very nearly killed
him, the first student ever to do so. I <em>would</em> have killed
him, had several others not dragged me away from the fight.</p>

<p>Only later had I found out that that weapons-masters often
goaded new pupils into fights to get a fair assessment of their
abilities.</p>

<p>I just grinned at Berushk and said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy to
show you how it&rsquo;s done, old man. Do you have a spare
sword?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wood or steel?&rdquo; he asked, grinning back.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll borrow Conner&rsquo;s,&rdquo; I said.
&ldquo;With his permission.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course.&rdquo; The twin on the right stepped forward,
offering me the hilt of his sword. As he grew close, he turned his
back to Berushk and whispered, &ldquo;Watch yourself, he changes
hands in the middle of a fight, and he likes to give dueling
scars.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I gave him a wink.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now, let&rsquo;s see if I remember how this works,&rdquo;
I said aloud. &ldquo;I believe I hold it so, and the object is to
poke you with the pointy end?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Berushk smiled. &ldquo;Enough games, boy.&rdquo; He made little
circles with the tip of Titus&rsquo;s blade. &ldquo;Show me your
best.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I gave his a quick salute with the blade, then assumed a
classical attack stance, right foot forward, left hand on my hip,
blade up and ready.</p>

<p>He attacked fast and high, and I parried with little apparent
grace or skill, making it
seem&mdash;once&mdash;twice&mdash;again!&mdash;as though luck more
than skill protected me. As sword rang on sword, I yielded ground
steadily before him.</p>

<p>When he deliberately left an opening, I didn&rsquo;t take it.
Instead, I hesitated, trying to appear indecisive. Let him think he
had me confused and on the run, I thought. I was the master of this
fight, not him. I would determine when and how it ended.</p>

<p>Sighing a bit, wanting to get our fight over and done so he
could get on with lessons, he attacked with renewed vigor, this
time using a quick double-feint designed to get around my
guard.</p>

<p>My parry came a beat too slow. He twisted, lunged, backslashed
with what should have struck a stinging blow to my right thigh.</p>

<p>Only his blow didn&rsquo;t land.</p>

<p>This was the chance I&rsquo;d been waiting for. With the speed
of a striking panther, I closed instead of retreating, moving
inside his reach. His eyes grew wide. He realized&mdash;too
late!&mdash;what had just happened when his blade whistled through
empty air.</p>

<p>I flipped my sword over to my left hand, grabbed his wrist with
my right hand, and gave a twist and a jerk. He staggered, off balance
and over-extended. Without hesitation, I pivoted and kicked his
left leg out from under him, and he sprawled onto his back with a
whoosh of expelled air.</p>

<p>Stepping close, I pointed my sword at his throat.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yield?&rdquo; I asked quietly.</p>

<p>He chuckled. &ldquo;Well done, Oberon. Worthy of a Lord of
Chaos. I yield.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Conner and Titus were staring at me like I&rsquo;d just grown a
second head.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You won?&rdquo; Titus said. &ldquo;You actually
won?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I offered Berushk my hand, and he pulled himself up and dusted
off his clothes somewhat ruefully.</p>

<p><em>&ldquo;That,&rdquo;</em> he said to Conner and Titus, &ldquo;is the way to fight a
battle. Never reveal your strengths. Let your opponent misjudge and
make the first mistake.&rdquo; He turned to me. &ldquo;Who trained
you, Lord Oberon? I have never seen the
<em>clave-&agrave;-main</em> used in such an <em>energetic</em>
manner before!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My father,&rdquo; I said evenly. I tossed Conner his
sword.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That would explain it,&rdquo; Berushk said, smiling.
&ldquo;I have never seen him fight, though tales of his wild youth
are still legend in the Courts of Chaos. He must have been quite
accomplished.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He still is,&rdquo; I said, thinking back to our battle
with the hell-creatures in Kingstown. His swordsmanship had been
nothing short of amazing. I went on, &ldquo;I take it I&rsquo;ve
passed your test?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Lord Oberon,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;I fear there is
little you can learn from me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I just came for a workout.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;we can do,&rdquo; He looked
at Conner and Titus and winked at them a little too happily.
&ldquo;Can&rsquo;t we, boys?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Berushk proved true to his word. I spent the next two hours in
one of the most grueling exercise sessions of my life, fighting the
three of them singly, paired, or all three at once.</p>

<p>I didn&rsquo;t lose a single contest, not even when Berushk tied
back my left arm and put weights on my feet. It left me soaked in
sweat and shaking, but I managed to tag them all with a wooden
sword before my strength gave out.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s it for me today!&rdquo; I said, panting.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well fought, Lord,&rdquo; Berushk said. He bowed to
me.</p>

<p>I noticed our audience had grown to include a good dozen army
officers and castle guardsmen. They began to clap and cheer, so I
gave them a quick salute with my sword before returning it to the
practice weapons rack. I had a feeling they&rsquo;d be talking
about my workout for some time.</p>

<p>Then I toweled off, thanked Berushk for his time and trouble,
and headed inside. The watchers parted silently as I passed through
their ranks.</p>

<p>Conner and Titus hurried to join me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think you&rsquo;re as good as Locke,&rdquo; Conner told
me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe better,&rdquo; said Titus. &ldquo;Berushk still
beats him now and again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I laughed. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s just because they work out
together. They know each other&rsquo;s tricks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Even so&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>And we spent the walk up to our rooms chatting like old friends.
I had found them dour and distant at dinner, but once they relaxed,
I found I actually enjoyed their company.</p>

<p>We reached our floor and went our separate ways. That&rsquo;s
when I noticed the door to my rooms stood open. So much for my
plans for a quiet rest before dinner.</p>

<p>I peeked around the door frame, expecting the worst.</p>

<p>Instead of lurking assassins, however, I found Freda and Aber
waiting inside for me. Freda, at the writing table, had her set of
cards out and was turning them over one by one, studying the
emerging pattern. She did not look happy.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Problems?&rdquo; I asked Aber quietly as I entered.
&ldquo;Doesn&rsquo;t she like what she sees?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The problem is, she&rsquo;s not seeing
<em>anything.&rdquo;</em></p>

<p>I raised my eyebrows. &ldquo;Is that bad?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo; He folded his arms and
frowned. &ldquo;She won&rsquo;t tell me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That made me smile. &ldquo;You should join me in the workout
yard tomorrow,&rdquo; I said, heading for my bedroom and the
washbasin. I&rsquo;d need to get cleaned up for dinner.
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a good way to get your exercise and bond with
your brothers.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The problem with that,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;is that I
don&rsquo;t <em>like</em> my brothers all that much. Present
company excepted, of course.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And as for bonding with them?&rdquo; He gave a mock
shudder, &ldquo;No thank you! Who did you work out with?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Conner and Titus. And an interesting weapons-master named
Berushk.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I met him once. All he did was insult me!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What did you do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I told him to grow up and went back inside.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I had to laugh. &ldquo;Everyone says a battle is coming.
Don&rsquo;t you want to be ready?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, don&rsquo;t worry about me. I have a plan. If
we&rsquo;re attacked, I&rsquo;m going to stand well out of the way
while you and Locke and Dad kill everyone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I snorted. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not much of a plan.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It will do for now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Have you seen Horace?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My valet.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, him. No. Want me to send someone to find
him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;just show me the way to
Mattus&rsquo;s closet, will you? I need some clean
clothes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure. Come on.&rdquo; He started for the door, and I
trailed him.</p>

<p>Before we made it out, though, Freda said, &ldquo;Oberon, please
come here first. I want you to shuffle these Trumps.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;If you think it will
help.&rdquo;</p>

<p>As I reached for them, a loud bell began to toll close by, its
peals loud and incessant, coming every few seconds. I paused,
listening, counting. Five then eight then ten strikes, and then it
stopped.</p>

<p>Freda had an anxious expression on her face. Rising, she began
to pack up her cards.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What does that bell mean?&rdquo; I demanded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;An emergency!&rdquo; Aber said. &ldquo;We have five
minutes to report to the main hall!&rdquo;</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide15.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide17.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

