<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Masks Of The Martyrs</title>
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="ring.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide10.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide12.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">9. THE FINAL BATTLE</h2>

<p class="noindent">HAWKS SAT WITH WHAT WAS LEFT OF THE COUNCIL in
the main control room of <em>Thunder.</em></p>

<p>&ldquo;All right, how many ships do we have armed and
ready?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Twenty-six,&rdquo; Star Eagle responded. &ldquo;That was
the most possible without using main engines, and they are
beginning to get very suspicious ever since Raven attacked and
nothing followed. That is five hundred and twenty coordinated
fighters plus the on-board guns and torpedoes. The shielding,
however, will be poor since it was mostly designed for punches, and
the in-system speed will be slow for the same reason. Remember, I
had to use Jupiter as a slingshot to gain enough speed for the
initial getaway. As soon as I activate them, the whole plan will be
clear to Master System.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That begged the big question. &ldquo;Can we win with
that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It might be close. Since Raven&rsquo;s escapade they have
spread out and are still fairly thin, but these are destroyers we
are talking about&mdash;one hundred and thirty-one of them to be
exact, along with a count of at least twelve Vals in the near-Earth
orbit position commanding another ten. In realistic terms, the big
ships are going to get the hell blown out of them, but the fighters
are too small and fast to be separated from all the other pulses
unless you know their codes. That means the fighters will show to
an attack computer just like torpedoes, although they are in
reality several times that size and faster.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Recommendations?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Start them all up at once,&rdquo; Maria Santiago
suggested. &ldquo;As long as we telegraph our battle plan by
starting one, let us start all of them. Swing them out and up and
around as fast as possible&mdash;I know that will take time, and
<em>they</em> will need time to organize their response. Your
screens show no ships within close range except perhaps a fighter
or two on picket, and if need be, <em>Lightning</em> can take them
if those captains are as good as they seem to be. There is no
evidence that Master System even suspects <em>Lighting</em> is
there and even if it deduces it, when the big ships move it
won&rsquo;t be looking for one little ship. Pull the ships out in
formation, accelerate, make the full Jupiter arc.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But they&rsquo;re not going to punch,&rdquo; Hawks
pointed out.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, but does Master System know this? It has the
advantage of having to defend a relatively small position, but its
disadvantage is that it must always react, always wait for us to
move. We have already done something apparently irrational. We
sacrificed a ship, and while the task force lost a dozen it was
hurt far less by that than we by the loss of one. It will take
nothing for granted with us. I would think that it would have to
consider the possibility of facing twenty-six <em>Thunders</em>
with full command cores and specially outfitted by us. Carrying
what? They cannot know. Dozens of ships? Hundreds? They will have
to move to prevent the punchout of so many capital ships. The logic
will be easy, since all twenty-six will have to come out of
Jupiter&rsquo;s gravity well in a predetermined region in order to
punch out at the proper speed. It would be like shooting fish in a
barrel. But we do not break out for the punch. We continue to come
around and head in at maximum speed, then fan out. The initial
defensive perimeter would then be left behind and forced to catch
up. It would also be forced to split and give chase, which would
make them easy prey for the big ships&rsquo; fighters. That is the
sort of thing they were designed to handle.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It sounds good,&rdquo; Star Eagle told them. &ldquo;We
must force them to split their forces and group them around the big
ships. They are unlikely to engage the Vals and the ten fighters
they have around Earth. Those are certainly reserves, and in any
event they would be there to keep us from sneaking in under cover
of the big ships. With a proper set of inbound trajectories, they
would be able to take out any big ship they wanted&mdash;any three
or four, even&mdash;if they concentrated all their remaining forces
on them. But that would leave a massive force of our ships to get
through, all concentrated on the orbital defenses. They could not
permit that. But to take on all twenty-six at once would mean a
mere five destroyers per big ship. My calculations show that they
have a possibility of winning that way, but it is under seventeen
percent, comparing weaponry to weaponry, and remembering that I
have never fought such a battle before and have no precedent for
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry,&rdquo; Hawks responded. &ldquo;Neither
has Master System. The few times it faced a battle of any
magnitude, such as with the Makkikor, it was in our position,
attacking. It has never been forced to defend before, even though
it was originally designed to do so. Is there any other strategy
that you could see&mdash;that any of you can see&mdash;other than
five to a big ship?&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was dead silence.</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right, then, it&rsquo;ll take the odds and hope that
whatever is left can be handled by the Vals and orbital ships. I
believe Maria&rsquo;s plan is the best one for us, as well, but I
want everyone at their ships and on station, all ships powered up
and ready to go. The odds favor us having a number of potent but
very damaged survivors to take on the Vals and the rest. When we
get to that point we must commit ourselves. Everything we have.
<em>Lightning,</em> too&mdash;notify them to be ready. Star Eagle,
how many fighters do you have in combat configuration?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We have been manufacturing them at a good clip. We have
forty-two locked on the outer hull now, half with limited punch
capability. In addition I have four with transmuter transceiving
grids on them and six remaining monitor ships. Those last
aren&rsquo;t much good unless they can ram something but
that&rsquo;s always a possibility.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Butar Killomen looked shocked. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re not going to
engage <em>Thunder</em> directly, are you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I have to. All or nothing, Bute. All or nothing.
I&rsquo;m well aware of what I&rsquo;m saying and what I&rsquo;m
risking, but I will risk everything rather than lose at this late
stage because we failed to commit one gun. This has been understood
by those of us who started from here so long ago since the
beginning.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But the children&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If we lose,&rdquo; he responded, &ldquo;what sort of
future do they have?&rdquo; He pounded his fist on the table.
&ldquo;No! All or nothing. Any minute, any day, we could wind up
with two or more new task forces reporting in from far-flung
regions when we have already shot our wad&mdash;not to mention four
hundred plus divisions of the SPF who could show up at any time if
Master System is really scared. The odds barely favor us completing
this thing now, seventeen percent or no. I say we go! How say the
rest of you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Killomen gulped. &ldquo;Very well. I will take
<em>Bahakatan</em> along with Vulture, Min, Chung, and Fatima, of
course. We have been modifying <em>Kaotan,</em> since it already
had some modifications to account for the old Takya. I feel certain
that Takya, Dura, and Han Li can handle it well enough.
<em>Chunhoifan</em> has a majority of its original crew still in
original form but no experienced pilots left.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then Midi and I will take it,&rdquo; Maria said. &ldquo;I
want a chance to pay them all back for my own ship. We might need
some seat modifications and some change of control helmets, though,
to allow for our difference in shape.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Easy to do,&rdquo; Star Eagle told her. &ldquo;I am
ordering what is needed now and will have the maintenance robots
install it within two hours. It is merely a matter of replacing two
seats. The interface helmets are even easier, since we have many
spares now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I will interface with Star Eagle and track this
thing,&rdquo; China said. &ldquo;I want to be able to see what is
going on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks sighed. &ldquo;And that leaves the admiral with the wife
and kids, I guess. I suppose I should have taken some time in all
these years to learn how to fly one of these things. The problem
is, we still have more pilots than ships. One more and the Chows
could have a go. They&rsquo;ve been wanting to have some
action.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, they lack the killer instinct,&rdquo; China replied.
&ldquo;They still see this almost as a game. Let them tend to the
children. It is what they do best.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks looked over at Cloud Dancer, sitting apart from the
meeting. &ldquo;Then I guess it&rsquo;s just you and me, woman, as
usual.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She smiled. &ldquo;Do not be so glum, husband. Not everyone is
born to be a great warrior. Some are born to other things of equal
importance. Look at it this way: they all will leave only to fight,
but you, my husband, must tell them how the rings are to be
used.&rdquo;</p>

<br>
<p>Hawks sat in one of the command chairs on the bridge of the
<em>Thunder,</em> trying to think, trying to sort it all out, even
as the great ships were activated and other ships of the line
readied for backup. He would face the climax of all their years of
blood and sweat alone. He had wanted it that way. Oh, China&rsquo;s
body sat in a forward command chair, helmet on, but her mind was
interfaced with Star Eagle&rsquo;s and she was no more there in any
meaningful sense than was, well, Raven.</p>

<p>There was nothing Hawks could do now, and he knew it. Raven and
many of the others were fighters; he was a thinker. There was no
particular shame in that distinction, but there was a sense that he
was perceived as unequal by the fighters themselves and that hurt a
bit. His political skills had in no small measure gotten them this
far; now, if the warriors could gain him the last small step, it
was entirely in his hands to get them the rest of the way.</p>

<p>He reached into a pouch and pulled out the four gold rings. Such
a simple code, really. It was not a code that the original members
of the Fellowship wished to be obscure or hard to understand. It
was not supposed to be almost a thousand years before they might be
used; it was, rather, a matter of years at the worst&mdash;or so
the makers of the rings had thought. Not so great a distance that
none but a historian of the Last Days might, just might, have
stumbled on it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>We are up to speed and arcing. All twenty-six units
under complete control and fully operational. Defense already
reacting, but even Master System cannot bend time. All going
according to plan.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>He looked at the Alititian ring. <em>Whose were you?</em> he
wondered. The ring of rings, one ring for each of the cardinal
points and another, slightly larger, in the center. Probably Aaron
Menzelbaum&rsquo;s. He was considered the greatest scientific mind
of his age; almost another Einstein, although his interests led him
into more concrete pursuits. Einstein&rsquo;s work had led, to his
horror, to the creation of the great weapons of terror while he
tried to preach world peace and explain the stars and matter and
energy. Menzelbaum, on the other hand, was devoted to saving
humankind from just those same terror weapons, although the
direction his great mind had taken was far different from the
direction the government that employed him wanted to go or thought
he was taking them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>They are taking the bait! Defense rings six through
nine are deploying to block punchout!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Menzelbaum, who had thrown out all the clumsy programming tricks
the computer people like to fool themselves into calling artificial
intelligence and had started anew, with totally different
approaches, totally different ways of managing, storing, and
accessing data. He was the theoretician who invented new forms of
mathematics to construct his models and who used that math to
create true holographic memory in an artificial creature.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>All scoops open. More than enough matter to transmute
into the energy we need. I should be able to fully charge the
fighters and defense commands by the time of orbital
breakout.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>But no university, no private group, could possibly fund the
size and scope of the computer Aaron Menzelbaum dreamed of
creating. Only a government could do that, and only the military
arm of a government could get so much money and brainpower support
without the project being constantly hacked to pieces, slowed, or
crippled beyond repair. And so, perhaps reluctantly, Aaron
Menzelbaum had allowed himself to be recruited to the defense of
his nation. Perhaps reluctantly. How often had Hawks and other
historians of the period wondered if that great mind had not
conceived of his master plan for peace right from the start and
wound up just where he wanted to be.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Coming &rsquo;round now. Excellent speed and control,
power at seventy percent and climbing. Estimate that four ships
will remain underpowered after full rounding, but that is fewer
than my initial projections. There is a lot of junk to be fed to
transmuters orbiting Jupiter.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>But what about the other four? Pinsky, of course, was easy. She
had come to the United States to teach and do research in areas a
bit too expensive for her native land and wound up living in
America far longer than she had in Israel. A close friend of and
engineering alter ego of Menzelbaum&rsquo;s and the natural one to
oversee the actual construction of the great computer. Yomashita,
the Japanese-educated Hawaiian who was expert in the new
manufacturing techniques necessary to create the memory storage for
the computer, techniques that required memory cells to be
manufactured in space to get the necessary purity and then brought
back to Earth. Sung Yi, the immigrant genius behind the principles
of molecular conversion that would power the new machine
independently of any outside source, the primitive ancestor of the
transmuter. And Ntunanga, the Paris-educated Gabonese who was,
perhaps, the only other mind capable of understanding
Menzelbaum&rsquo;s mathematics and thus essential in spite of most
certainly giving some security men fits.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Everybody relax and get some rest. It&rsquo;s going
to be a while now before things start popping.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Some assignment it had to be. To build a computer so complex and
so intelligent that it would be able to gather and consolidate and
evaluate and analyze all the incoming intelligence, then control,
coordinate, and plan for almost any military contingency. Something
so brilliant and so powerful that one would merely have to call in
or type in a question like &ldquo;What are the odds the Russians
would fight rather than pull back on the Indian
subcontinent?&rdquo; &ldquo;Is the new regime in Chad likely to
favor a pro-American, pro-Russian, or neutralist course?&rdquo; How
important is holding here or moving there?</p>

<p>So all-powerful, all-knowing, it was supposed to be able to
instantly give a President his options in a crisis, including the
ultimate recommendation on whether or not to launch a nuclear
strike. Not that the system could do so on its own&mdash;that was
to be prohibited in a series of commands Menzelbaum called the core
imperatives. There was only one very limited scenario where it had
that authority&mdash;if an enemy had already launched and the
nuclear defense shields were evaluated as inadequate to contain a
first-strike blow. The second strike was entirely in its hands so
long as that was not countermanded by the President or legal
authorities. Menzelbaum would never allow any machine, not even
his, to have first-strike ability.</p>

<p>Hawks had often wondered how it had come up. Star Eagle
indicated that the five mostly got close because of their
non-Christian heritage; the project was so complex that otherwise
their paths might have crossed only seldom. Certainly it had come
up at least three years before the terrible day their child was set
loose. All five had moved by that time close to the actual site of
the great computer and had pretty much taken up permanent residence
there, and they met often, and socialized together. It must have
been a life under a total security blanket; it&rsquo;s amazing they
were able to not only formulate but actually create and install
their little extras without being detected. But then, of course, in
order to understand what they were doing one would need to
understand the complex mathematics and physics that were their
life, and they were beyond their peers.</p>

<p>Perhaps it was not so odd. If Center personnel now could learn
to cheat and defeat the most sophisticated mindprinting and
surveillance systems ever devised, then it must have been
child&rsquo;s play for minds like that to deceive far less
sophisticated and equally suspicious security forces.</p>

<p>The military men had chafed over the first-strike limitations,
but the views of those such as these five were well known and it
was their way or no computer at all. They were resolved that they
would not be a new form of the Manhattan Project, whose scientists
created the atomic bomb and then, in the main, spent the rest of
their lives regretting it. No, this computer might well find
alternatives that no human mind, under pressure or not, could ever
conceive of to prevent nuclear war, and as for second
strike&mdash;well, what difference was it if all was lost whether
it was man or the machine who pushed that final button?</p>

<p>But their great computer had an added imperative. To explore and
find any way or ways possible to save the human race from itself,
down to the last moment, and to hold those ways in readiness in
case the most terrible of decisions was somehow judged
inevitable.</p>

<p>Still, they were ever mindful that the best of great projects
created by great minds often begat monsters. The core imperatives
had to be precise, unbending, unyielding. Humanity was to be
preserved at all cost. That was the first imperative. Once
pacified, humanity must be prevented from ever being in the
position to totally destroy itself again. That was the second
imperative. Humans must be left to manage their own affairs and run
their own societies as soon as the first two imperatives were met.
That was the third imperative, intended to forestall the tyranny of
the machine. And then? The ultimate aim of human creation should be
the never-ending pursuit and acquisition of knowledge. That was the
fourth imperative.</p>

<p>And still they agonized. There was no way to test this, no way
to see if, somehow, they had made a mistake. Even if they could run
the models they could not hide them from the countless other
brilliant minds on the project and the security and military
overseers. They could not know, and it had made them uneasy no
matter that theirs was the only alternative to total human
genocide. Just as there could be no first strike by machine, only
by order of those elected to that authority, so there should be
humans with authority over the machine extending even to halting
its carrying out of its imperatives. A simple interface, really,
that would simply force a reset and return command to a
preactivation mode, subject to human authority. But an interrupt
that would require the unanimous vote of all five. A single code
that the core would recognize and would not be able to block or
ignore, broken into five parts, burned into five memory modules
each with part of the code. The modules would have to be
accessible, yet hidden from view of the security people who always
watched them.</p>

<p>Five rings, to mark rank in an informal social club of the best
brains in the project. Insert them in the wrong order and the
override code would be sheer garbage. Who knew what the computer
would do in that case? Certainly ignore any such signals, if not
worse. It might well interpret such a wrong code as an attempt to
breach its security.</p>

<p>More imperatives. What if any or all of them should die? The
rings must be held by humans, and by humans with authority. That
seemed easy enough. Humans would always hold the override, and
humans with authority would obviously have access to the
computer&mdash;wouldn&rsquo;t they? And give an imperative that the
holders of the rings had a right to access the interface. Otherwise
the computer could always prevent itself from being reset.</p>

<p>Raven, Star Eagle, and others believed that if all five rings
were united, Master System could not prevent in any way the bearers
from coming to it and inserting the rings. Perhaps&mdash;but those
imperatives were subject to interpretation. Four simply
wouldn&rsquo;t do. You had to battle your way to the fifth.</p>

<p>And Menzelbaum&rsquo;s greatest creation was flawed not so much
because it did not work or was defective or even because it was
evil. It was none of those things. What it was was alien, the first
alien intelligence, the first life form of its kind ever faced in
human history. A life form whose personality was not shaped by
birth and parenting and hormones and growing up, and who could
understand those things only in an academic way. The most clear-cut
of statements might to such a creature have infinite meanings.</p>

<p>Save humanity. Somehow it did that, the circumstances were not
really known&mdash;but there certainly had been an imminent war of
the sort its creators had feared. There were signs of it in places
even now, although not in as many places as one would expect. How
did Master System stop it? Perhaps only it could explain, if there
were anyone around capable of understanding the explanation. And
when it did so, the imperatives came into play.</p>

<p>Be certain humanity can&rsquo;t ever destroy itself again.
Disarm it, rule it ruthlessly, tyrannize it. But only for a time.
The other imperatives are there as well. The only logical choice:
dispersal. Spread it out over so great a distance that not even the
worst natural or man-made disasters could destroy it. Speed was of
the essence. No time after exploration to turn those worlds into
Earthlike havens. Solution: turn the humans into creatures who
could survive on what was found. Alien civilizations? A couple, and
possible long-term threats to humanity&rsquo;s survival if
space-capable. Solution: total destruction of alien races unless
those races surrender to and agree to be co-opted into the master
system. There was no compunction about committing genocide of other
life forms; the creators of the core hadn&rsquo;t mentioned them at
all. Master System was good at taking the initiative when faced
with a problem not covered by instructions.</p>

<p>Humans shall rule themselves? Enter the Centers, where humans
appointed by the system rule their own people&mdash;and make
certain those people remain ignorant, stagnated, uncreative. Seek
out the best and the brightest and either co-opt them to the
Centers or, if they can&rsquo;t be co-opted, make certain they
don&rsquo;t grow up. Make the humans enforce the system. Humans
would rule humans&mdash;but only one philosophy of social
management was allowed.</p>

<p>As for pursuing and gathering all knowledge, who was better
equipped to do so, the poor humans or the great computers? To
fulfill this imperative, it was necessary to keep the humans out of
the way as pets in preserves, zoos, or museum exhibits.</p>

<p>The only threat: the rings. Can&rsquo;t destroy them,
can&rsquo;t keep them. Imperatives, more imperatives. Best to
disperse them, as well, to the far corners of the colonies, and
then destroy all references that the rings even existed, let alone
what they might be used for and how. With humanity denied control
of space, how could anyone who ever did learn of them get them?</p>

<p>
One&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;two&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;three&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;four.
One more left behind, on Lazlo Chen&rsquo;s fat finger. His was the
one with the three birds with open beaks. Parrots, it looked like.
It was funny, absurd. <em>Five golden
rings&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</em></p>

<p>How damnably simple, how droll a joke, especially for the five
brilliant minds left behind when everyone else went off for
Christmas.</p>

<p>The center ring was largest on the Alititian stone. Not as much
help as he&rsquo;d hoped, but it was clearly first among equals and
the song tended to be sung, according to the records, in descending
order. Five, four, three, two, one&mdash;the simplest
progression.</p>

<p>And where is the interface? They had decided it, and logic
dictated it. Master System wasn&rsquo;t some portable core that
could be picked up and moved. It was <em>massive.</em> It had to
be. Built right into the Earth upon which it fed and through which
it expanded. It would never dare allow itself to be transferred or
moved, to be shut down for any interval, or to trust even its own
creations to reassemble it perfectly elsewhere. It was right where
they had built it. Right in the great mountains of the western
divide in North America, surrounded entirely by nontechnological
people of the land who migrated from mountains to plains and hunted
the buffalo and fished the great rivers and stalked the elk and
bear.</p>

<p>Knowing that, and from space, it ought to be simplicity itself
to find. The radiations coming from it, the communications network,
all that, focused on a single point somewhere in those
mountains&mdash;hell, it was child&rsquo;s play.</p>

<p>If you had something in orbit of your own that wouldn&rsquo;t be
knocked down while you were taking that look.</p>
<br>
<p>&ldquo;<em>I</em> <em>have separation over almost two million
kilometers, the outermost in a broad arc and the ones with the
least power in a direct center line! They are turning in pursuit
and breaking up. Uh oh! They&rsquo;re letting the four center ships
go and concentrating an extra fighter on each of the other
twenty-two. I guess Master System figured out they had the lowest
reserves and is leaving them for the planetary defense. We&rsquo;re
leaving the outer defenses in our wake! I might have to slow down
to let them catch us, but now we&rsquo;ve got the first waves
coming in-system. Here we go!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks started, then looked around for a moment. He must have
fallen asleep. The announcement of the initial engagement woke him
up. He felt thirsty, and hungry, but made do with water. Even
though it was still remote from him, he knew he could neither eat
nor drink much of anything until it was over. Then? Well, Raven had
left some pretty fancy stuff from Savaphoong&rsquo;s larder. It
would either be the best last meal he ever ate or a victory
repast.</p>

<p>There was a wrongness about computers fighting computers. You
could only sit and wait; your poor human brain couldn&rsquo;t even
follow the intricacies of parry, thrust, maneuver, shoot. There was
something terribly disquieting in the knowledge that empty ships
were fighting empty ships to determine humanity&rsquo;s direction,
as if the ghost of Aaron Menzelbaum hovered over both sides and
would not let go.</p>

<p>There was a sense of remoteness about it, as well. Up on the
main screen he could see little colored lights representing what
was going on and even though he had the skill to follow them,
something inside him disallowed even that. It wasn&rsquo;t real; it
was some sort of simulation, some game, even with its own
scoreboard. On the one side was a big numeral 26, and under it a
smaller number that had started at numeral 520. On the other,
numeral 131 and under it a smaller 10 and a companion 12. The
numbers now began to count down, but not rapidly.</p>

<p>The problem was distances within a solar system. The big ships
would soon be up to their maximums, which was less than half light
speed&mdash;a bit faster than the destroyers, ironically, since the
destroyers could mini-punch within the system. The big ships
weren&rsquo;t designed to do that and weren&rsquo;t all that
maneuverable around here. Those giants were fourteen kilometers
long and two wide; the destroyers could be measured in meters.
Forces and even braking and turning distances were radically
different on that basis alone, and the big ships were heading in,
not out.</p>

<p>Even at maximum speed, and assuming they were not slowed by
battle or damage, it would take them four or five days to reach the
neighborhood of Earth. Add two more days, perhaps, just for braking
to avoid slipping past and whipping around the sun, and you had a
better scale of just what was happening out there.</p>

<p>It was going to be a very slow, very long battle.</p>

<p>For the first time, he thought he might now understand a little
of Raven, and particularly the nature of the man&rsquo;s death.</p>

<p><em>The tribes came down off the hills chanting and hollering,
firing and throwing everything they had at the great iron monster
that belched smoke and for whom the buffalo had been so mercilessly
and senselessly slaughtered. They had been under no illusions that
they could stop the white man&rsquo;s terrible machines, but the
travesty, the sacrilege, of putting a machine&rsquo;s interest
above and at the cost of the interests, lives, and very way of life
of nations of human beings demanded it. It was not the machine
itself but the worship of it they found so horrible that fighting
and death seemed preferable to accepting its domination of human
values. To the white man, the great black belching monsters were
progress, for they worshipped innovation at any cost and could not
conceive of invention being evil; to the natives it displaced, it
was the demon horde from hell.</em></p>

<p>Cloud Dancer had understood, for her culture and values had been
of the old ways. The Isaac Claybens and Lazlo Chens never would. He
now understood, at least to a degree, on the most personal of
levels.</p>

<p>I am sitting here waiting for the iron horses to bash themselves
to bits, he thought, and in so doing I cheapen all that is truly
important, all that this has been truly about.</p>

<p>He sighed, got up, stretched, and left the bridge. The hell with
nerves and keyed-up reflexes. He was going to go down and play with
his kids and maybe make love to his wife.</p>
<br>
<p>&ldquo;Overall, an excellent accounting,&rdquo; Star Eagle
reported to them. &ldquo;We now have six ships and one hundred and
twelve active operational fighters within eight hours of the Earth.
Five more ships have grouped and merged forces well away with early
braking and have successfully drawn off the remaining defensive
fleet, which operationally now is down to only sixteen ships.
Negligible. When they began hurling themselves suicidally at our
fleet I knew we had won. We&rsquo;ve done it! We&rsquo;ve broken
through and destroyed the greatest defensive fleet ever assembled!
<em>Lightning</em> has managed to pick off most of the newcomers as
they entered in-system before they could receive and act on their
new marching orders.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks nodded. He had not once been back up to look at the
&ldquo;scoreboard&rdquo; since he&rsquo;d left that first day. He
figured that Star Eagle and the others would tell him when he was
needed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Close punches,&rdquo; he ordered. &ldquo;I want all ships
to come in and support the remaining big ships in the near-Earth
engagement. No stops, no quarter. How close can you punch
<em>Thunder</em> in if you had to?&rdquo; It was standard procedure
to bring in ships well away from the inhabited areas to avoid
causing nasty side effects, and the big ships rarely punched in
anywhere close to their in-system destinations. Star Eagle,
however, had a lot of practice.</p>

<p>&ldquo;To be safe, three days behind the main body,&rdquo; the
pilot told him. &ldquo;Do you wish me to commit now?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right now. I&rsquo;m still expecting surprises to punch
in at any moment behind us, and this may be our only window of
opportunity. Punch through and try to hail Chen directly if you
can, the Presidium if you can&rsquo;t, as soon as we&rsquo;re close
enough in for reasonable communications.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. But I&rsquo;m going to be a sitting duck in
that close, you know. There&rsquo;s no way I&rsquo;m going to be
able to accelerate and scoop from that close in without using the
sun, and that will take a few days to do. In the meantime, anyone
who wants a crack at me can get it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing personal and nothing cruel intended, Star
Eagle,&rdquo; Hawks responded, &ldquo;but fast getaways simply
aren&rsquo;t relevant any more.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The ten fighter destroyers don&rsquo;t worry
me&mdash;I&rsquo;ve got their number now&mdash;but there&rsquo;re a
dozen Vals in orbit there. The odds at this point are more than
slightly against us with what forces we&rsquo;ve got
left.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Bring it in!</em>&rdquo; he ordered sharply.
&ldquo;We&rsquo;re going home!&rdquo;</p>

<p>The punch from their protected position took only eleven
minutes, and Star Eagle&rsquo;s greatest problem was putting on the
brakes. It would take a good day and a quarter just to slow the
massive vessel to a point where it could be safely maneuvered near
a planet.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The destroyers are coming out to meet the forward
fleet,&rdquo; Star Eagle reported as soon as it could get its
communications grid reestablished. &ldquo;<em>Kaotan</em> punching
in now. Good punch! Very close! <em>Chunhoifan</em> is a bit off
the mark but okay&mdash;I guess I didn&rsquo;t jury-rig those seats
and interfaces a hundred percent. And there&rsquo;s
<em>Bahakatan.</em> Easy formation. Uh oh! The Vals are starting to
group and move out behind the fighter screen. Watch for trouble.
All of them are capable of mini-punches.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks frowned. &ldquo;How many Vals are coming out behind the
fighters?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All of them. Fourteen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s odd. They&rsquo;re leaving Earth wide
open.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes,
but&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Oh!
<em>Oh!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>All of them leaned forward. &ldquo;Yes?&rdquo; Hawks prompted,
braced for bad news. &ldquo;What happened?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Vals! <em>They&rsquo;re opening fire on the
destroyers!</em> They&mdash;they&rsquo;ve got them. The destroyers
can&rsquo;t cope with it. What the hell is going on
here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks sat back in his chair as if struck by a physical blow.
Finally he said, &ldquo;Repeat that. You mean the <em>Vals</em> are
shooting down the reserve squadron of Master System&rsquo;s
fighters?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I mean they&rsquo;ve shot them down! Incredible! And now
they&rsquo;re breaking off in twin formations! The Vals are
yielding way! I&rsquo;ve already had to alter course to keep the
big ships from getting into real trouble that close in. I&rsquo;m
braking to parking orbits and recalling the fighters.
Hawks&mdash;what does it mean?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You have a right to the
rings</em>&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; &ldquo;<em>The core
system is like a
subconscious</em>&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, my god&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; Hawks
breathed. &ldquo;So that&rsquo;s it.&rdquo; He snapped out of it at
once, as if suddenly shot with a stimulant.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Star Eagle&mdash;brake <em>Thunder</em> down, but keep it
outside of Earth orbit. We have no idea if Master System still has
ground-based defensive systems. Bring all three manned ships back
here as quick as you can. Ask <em>Lightning</em> if it wants to be
relieved or can stand running interference for us a while
longer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sending. Our people are confused and not completely
relieved by this unexpected turn of events. They think it&rsquo;s a
trick, or that something big is being brought up to bear on them.
Vulture suspects that Master System simply didn&rsquo;t want to
risk destruction of the rings at this stage.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe, but I don&rsquo;t think that&rsquo;s it. I think I
have this thing fairly well figured out now, and I&rsquo;ve been
right so far. What sort of time are we talking on these?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have replies. <em>Lightning</em> is willing to remain
on station and actually thinks it would be a good idea to have some
company. They are uneasy and are using the time to send the
Makkikor to a few more generation ships. I can have the other three
back here in a couple of hours.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good enough. You hailed Chen yet?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing on Chen&rsquo;s personal frequency, but the
Centers are still active. I had feared, frankly, that Master System
had placed its draconian plan to revert Earth back to the stone age
in place while we were away.&rdquo;</p>

<p>So had Hawks. &ldquo;Well, get me whoever is highest in command
down there as soon as you can. And get a survey fighter ready to
take aboard <em>Bahakatan.</em> I want to scan the intermountain
basin of North America and I want a thorough job. I don&rsquo;t
want to have to find Master System, I want to just head
there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will do. Mind telling all of us just what you have in
mind?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;When we get to talk to the bosses down there I&rsquo;ll
give you more information. But, by god, if we have to come in and
blow hell out of a few Centers to get some attention, we&rsquo;re
going to get some attention!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got China Center now and I&rsquo;m letting our
China handle the conversation, although it might be kind of
sticky.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh? What&rsquo;s the problem?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It seems that China Center is still under Administrator
Song. Although we are right now still in the talk stage with
security, there is a very real possibility that we will be faced
with dealing with China&rsquo;s father.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Put &rsquo;em on,&rdquo; Hawks ordered. &ldquo;China can
monitor and translate if need be.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a momentary clicking noise and then they were plugged
into the direct communications network. A string of very angry
sounding Chinese was coming out of the speaker.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t care who or what you are,&rdquo; Hawks said
into the transceiver, &ldquo;you will shut up and listen. Either we
will be placed in contact with someone in authority within one
minute or I will order a laser torpedo launch on China Center and
we will deal with the next Center we get. You understand
that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>The jabbering stopped. Suddenly a very angry voice came on,
again speaking in Chinese, but now China was translating over it as
quickly as the man was speaking.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am General Chin, Chief of Security for China
Center,&rdquo; came the translation. &ldquo;Who is this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am Jonquathar of the Hyiakutt, also called Jon
Nighthawk in the master records. Who I am is irrelevant. It is
<em>what</em> I am that is all that matters. I am Chief and Admiral
of the Pirates of the <em>Thunder.</em> I am currently in a ship
closing on Earth and I have just eliminated all effective defensive
ships sent up by Master System to keep us out. We have lived among
the stars and killed many and fought many during these long years
and we no longer have any patience. Is Administrator Song there or
isn&rsquo;t he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That is excellent dialect for a translation,&rdquo; Chin
remarked, seemingly unimpressed. &ldquo;It almost reminds me
of&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Never mind, Nighthawk. I don&rsquo;t
know what the hell you think you are but there are more Vals around
this world now than ever in my long life and you must pardon me for
not believing you could knock out a major task force and all the
defenses.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You must believe it, General. And the Vals will not
attack me or my people, at least for now. You are too ignorant and
have too little authority for this discussion to have any meaning.
Is Song there? And is Lazlo Chen still running Tashkent
Center?&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a pause. &ldquo;Administrator Song is not presently at
Center. I am in temporary command. And, yes, as far as I know, Chen
is still in power in Tashkent. None of the Presidium is available
right now. They are in conference.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, General, I expect to be on Earth in a matter of
hours after many long years away. Chen in particular will want to
know that, and I suspect that Administrator Song will also want to
know that his daughter is among our band.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Song Ching! My old memory was not playing tricks! So, my
half niece, you survive after all!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;d better do as Hawks says,
<em>Uncle,</em>&rdquo; she responded coldly. &ldquo;He is not
bluffing. If he arrives without contacting the Presidium on your
orders, you will die, if not by our hands then by the hands of my
own father, your half brother. You are the arrogant, officious
idiot you always were.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Chin did not seem unduly alarmed. &ldquo;You have changed very
little, my dear. How nice to hear that sarcastic bitchy tone once
again. Very well&mdash;I will notify the Presidium. Give me a few
minutes to get through to them and explain the situation as given
to me. After that, if any want to talk to your pirate boss with his
grandiose claims and big mouth, they will be patched in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks couldn&rsquo;t follow all the conversation, but he got the
idea things were starting to move. &ldquo;China&mdash;tell him to
also send the following: We have all four and are coming for the
fifth. We prefer to negotiate, but we did not get the other four by
talking. Got it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Got it. If my fat pig of an uncle gets it straight I
think we will hear some action. I should like to see his face when
he gets the reply from the Presidium. My father has been known to
publicly dismember true idiots, and I suspect that this time Chin
has overstepped himself at last.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;d do that to his own
<em>brother?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Only a half brother. That&rsquo;s why he&rsquo;s still
around at all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Interesting family you must have. Are you up to talking
with your father? I know the two of you were never
exactly&mdash;close.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My father has as much humanity as a maintenance robot and
I doubt if the years have changed him nearly as much as they have
changed me. I just wonder if it&rsquo;s sheer chance that the
Presidium is meeting when we show up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I doubt it. I don&rsquo;t think chance enters into things
from this point on. At least, the Vals don&rsquo;t seem to think
so. They waited to see if we could beat the task force, then made
their decision. It is not the machines that will be our major enemy
now, it is the people.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The next voice that came to them from Earth spoke in high
classical Mandarin, but even at that Hawks could hear the chill
behind that voice. This was one tough son of a bitch.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This is Administrator Song. Is it true that my daughter
has returned?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks did not flip the switch but rather spoke openly to Star
Eagle. &ldquo;Make sure you get a fix on this. I want to know just
where they&rsquo;re meeting.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will do. It might take a few minutes, though. The
in-system stuff bounces all over the place and I don&rsquo;t have
anything fixed in Earth orbit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Song Ching is dead, <em>Father,</em>&rdquo; China
replied. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you remember&mdash;it was your very
wish. She has been turned into just what you designed her body for.
You are a less-than-honorable grandfather many times over, but I
doubt if you would approve of your grandchildren&rsquo;s pedigrees.
I am China Nightingale, and I am interfaced with the pilot of the
great ship <em>Thunder.</em> Our leader wishes to speak with Lazlo
Chen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a mumbling and someone on the administrator&rsquo;s
end clearly said, in heavily accented English, &ldquo;Give me that
thing, you old fart,&rdquo; and there was the sound of a minor
scuffle.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This is Lazlo Chen,&rdquo; that same voice said after a
moment. &ldquo;Go ahead, Hawks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you still wear your three birds, Chen?&rdquo; Hawks
asked, almost fearing that at this late stage Master System might
have done something to make the last one unattainable.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have it. In fact, I have it with me now, on my
finger,&rdquo; Chen replied. &ldquo;And you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have four such baubles myself. How do we get them all
together?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Chen thought a moment. &ldquo;With so many Vals around I am not
certain of a safe place.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Vals won&rsquo;t interfere, unless we take up so much
time in debate and setup that Master System is able to get
reinforcements. Right now the Vals are electing to go with the
evident winners.&rdquo;</p>

<p>That seemed to unsettle the old man. &ldquo;Fascinating. Unheard
of. You are certain it is no trick? To get all five together and
grab them?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing is certain. I am, however, convinced that we will
be far safer with all five together than with one separated from
the rest as now. If there are five hands with five rings upon them,
then I think we have a certain overriding right. No guarantees, but
it&rsquo;s been a long, tough voyage, Chen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Star Eagle broke in, not transmitting to Chen. &ldquo;I have the
location. They are meeting somewhere near, but not in, Brasilia
Center. The final routing is through there but I would doubt if
they&rsquo;re actually in the place.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why not join us here?&rdquo; Chen asked him. &ldquo;It is
as secure an area as can be on this old world.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks grinned to himself. &ldquo;You helped pick the ones who
went out to get the rings. I don&rsquo;t think you believe you
picked fools. How about I send a ship down for you so you can join
us here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Even if I were so foolish as to accept I sincerely doubt
if I could leave this room alive with the ring under such
circumstances,&rdquo; the chief administrator of Earth responded.
&ldquo;In all this planning I freely admit that I never thought it
would come down to this point. I had to try, but I never dared
dream you would succeed. Now it comes down to a rather trivial
matter of trust and protocol, does it not? We are less than fully
safe apart, but we have problems getting together. How
ironic.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks thought a moment. &ldquo;How many of your fellow
administrators might be the minimum party to come with
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think five, perhaps six. I suspect that they want a
shot at it in case we should fail.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Fair enough. Then I will bring the same number. I will
give you a latitude and longitude coordinate in a moment. What
season would it be now in the northern hemisphere?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh? Why, it would be almost fall. Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p><em>Full circle,</em> Hawks thought. &ldquo;Then that will do
fine. Six of you and six of us, no more on either side, and no
tricks. We go together. Understood?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Fair is fair. I assume the site is near where we must
go?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have only a vague idea, but I should know by the time
we get together. You have skimmers around, I assume. Bring a big
one for all of us. And a few warnings. Any tricks and while the
Vals might not care, we have current, if temporary, command of air
and space in the region and we have become quite good at tracking.
If your people or you try anything with us, and even at this late
stage, <em>nobody</em> will use the rings. You think, too, that
right now I&rsquo;m the only one, even of my party, who knows just
how to use them, and any attempt to get that out of me will result
in my death. And one last thing&mdash;a few of my friends might
appear a bit strange to you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Understood. I shall be fascinated to hear your story of
how you did it. Weapons?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Bring what you can easily carry&mdash;we aren&rsquo;t out
of the woods yet, and I am expecting an SPF force or another
automated task force any day now, so we cannot waste time on this.
I&rsquo;m not kidding myself that I have anything more than
temporary control and I can&rsquo;t even guarantee what the Vals
will do if such a force shows up. What day and time have
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is twenty-two forty-nine Greenwich, on a
Wednesday.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very well. Give a time check in one minute so we&rsquo;ll
be synchronized. We meet at my position tomorrow at seventeen
hundred Greenwich exactly. Agreed?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Agreed. Standing by to synchronize.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks sat back and sighed. &ldquo;And so it is the beginning of
the end,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll use <em>Bahakatan.</em>
Star Eagle, I&rsquo;ll want a tie-in to all ships including
<em>Lightning</em> and everyone still aboard <em>Thunder</em> for a
general meeting in one hour. We&rsquo;re going to have to make some
hard decisions, and these are decisions of a nature that I cannot
impose them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No problem,&rdquo; the pilot responded. &ldquo;But if you
are too long-winded we will have some of them docking before
it&rsquo;s over.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll take that chance.&rdquo; Hawks sat back and
shook his head. So long, so slow, so deliberate&mdash;and now it
was all coming down to this.</p>

<p>Isaac Clayben had joined him and listened to this barrage of
orders. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not sure I like this. You will be on their
turf, in their domain, with only a few of us present in case of
treachery. You don&rsquo;t seriously expect those powerful men to
just go along with a twenty percent share, do you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;As long as they don&rsquo;t have all the information they
need, yes,&rdquo; the chief replied. &ldquo;If and when they do,
then we could face our final challenge. Not until the moment Master
System is reset and we know just what we are dealing with will I
feel that we have accomplished anything at all. I understand what
you&rsquo;re saying, Doctor, and I can but cover my back and pray.
After all that struggle and all these years, we could still lose it
in the last fleeting moments.&rdquo;</p>
<br>
<p>The meeting was, in spite of the need for communications
hookups, in many ways not very different from the meetings they had
held for years and which had run both the operations and the
internal society of <em>Thunder</em> so well during that period.
Hawks was capable of giving orders and making the hard decisions,
which is why he was the elected leader, but he preferred consensus.
This time, however, he really had doubts as to whether the
consensus could be achieved.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t know just what we&rsquo;re getting into
now,&rdquo; he told them. &ldquo;In some ways this is the most
difficult ring of the whole batch, since our two greatest weapons,
secrecy and the ignorance of our opponents, are denied us. I would
like to take down all of you who have been with us all this time
and have worked so hard and sacrificed so much, but I can&rsquo;t.
I must go&mdash;this is the one task that simply cannot be
delegated, one risk I must face myself. Under the terms of the
agreement with Chen, I can take only five others with
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I say we cheat a bit,&rdquo; China said flatly.
&ldquo;You have only some experience with them, but I know them all
too well. They have something up their collective sleeves, perhaps
quite a bit. They intend to get and use all the rings for
themselves. That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s all about. Without some
insurance, it will be their game.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks agreed with her but saw no way around it. &ldquo;They will
know if we cheat. Their resources are quite extensive in their own
right, you know. We will all get as far as the interface, I
suspect, but at that point&mdash;who knows? What can I do? If I
call in reinforcements and air cover, they will know it, and their
armed skimmers can reach us well in advance of anything
<em>Thunder</em> can send. The only insurance we have at this point
is that they don&rsquo;t know how to use the rings.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That is not exactly excellent insurance,&rdquo; Dura
Panoshka noted. &ldquo;Savaphoong thought that his knowledge of
Alititia was all <em>he</em> needed, and look what it got him. You
cannot be certain that they do not know far more than they pretend
to.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I would suspect a more sophisticated, technological
trap,&rdquo; Clayben put in. &ldquo;Remember that hypnocaster
inside the Matriyehan goddess? Our monitors are not in place, but
they have almost a day to set up anything they want at the meeting
site. I might be able to rig up some sort of portable device to jam
such things, although I don&rsquo;t have much time, but you
can&rsquo;t ever be sure you&rsquo;re covering
everything.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do what you can,&rdquo; Hawks told him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s to keep them from just planting a small army
in the region and shadowing us, waiting to pounce?&rdquo; Vulture
asked via the radio.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s why I chose the meeting place I
did,&rdquo; Hawks replied. &ldquo;I will be able to take some
precautions and we&rsquo;ll be able to monitor it, as well, before
we go down. In fact, I <em>am</em> going to cheat in a small way.
We&rsquo;re going to land a transmitter pod down there in just a
few hours if all goes well. That will allow us easy access when the
time comes, but might also allow an earlier drop, not of an armed
agent but someone else. Cloud Dancer has wished for many years to
feel the wind and sun again and to visit our people, many of whom
are still in that area. She is very capable and cannot be coerced
into anything on the very slim chance she is spotted. We&rsquo;ve worked on some makeup to hide the Melchior facial
tattoos, or at least make hers appear to be far different from what
they are. She will talk Hyiakutt to Hyiakutt. I seriously doubt if
anybody they send will be able to do that, particularly as one of
the tribe. If they&rsquo;re trying to pull anything, she&rsquo;ll
find it out, and if she can convince the elders that these big
shots are trying to steal the fruits of a Hyiakutt victory we will
have quite a number of warm-body allies down there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Clayben shrugged. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s worth the gamble. All right,
then&mdash;we&rsquo;re down to the bottom line, aren&rsquo;t we?
Who goes?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks sighed. &ldquo;In order, and I&rsquo;ll make my own
comments when we hear from each. The Chows have the right to the
two-birds-of-peace ring. I would love to have you both, since you
have that great talent for locks and puzzles and I fear we may face
one of the greatest when we get there, but I simply can&rsquo;t
take you both. I want your talent, though.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That makes it very difficult for us,&rdquo; Chow Dai
responded, &ldquo;for never have we been separated. Still, for our
honor and the sake of our children, one of us must go, although we
have no real understanding of what it is you hope to do down there,
nor any ambition toward it. And, down there, we will be not at home
but four-footed freaks on a world to which we no longer belong.
Still, we have discussed it. One of us must remain for the sake of
the children anyway. I was always the more outgoing and so it falls
to me to go.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks nodded. &ldquo;Thank you. That&rsquo;s two. Maria, Midi,
you two have the votes on the ring of the bird and the tree. I
would like to take you both, particularly since your fighting
instincts, toughness, and reflexes are the best among us, but for
now I must be content with one of you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maria will go,&rdquo; Midi told them. &ldquo;We have
discussed this. She has lost a ship and a command and many fine
comrades, in part because of my shameful actions on the
<em>Luzon</em> off Janipur. Now we are sisters of the same blood.
If I would trust her with my life, I see no reason not to trust her
with the ring.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks nodded. &ldquo;Fitting. All right, that&rsquo;s
three&mdash;me, Chow Dai, and Captain Santiago. Butar, your people
have the vote on the Chanchuk ring. I need one
candidate.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let me speak to that,&rdquo; Vulture cut in. &ldquo;I
know you&rsquo;re dancing all around this, Hawks, trying to figure
a way to not include me, so I take myself out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No one has a greater right than you to a ring,&rdquo;
Hawks noted.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah, that may be true, but <em>I</em> wouldn&rsquo;t
take me, much as I want to be there. We don&rsquo;t really know how
exacting this human rule is. I&rsquo;m Chanchukian human
now&mdash;am I ever!&mdash;but I wasn&rsquo;t born, I didn&rsquo;t
grow up this way. I&rsquo;m still artificial, still questionable.
That leaves me out as a ring bearer, and the only other possibility
would be to go as one of the extra people for security. I&rsquo;m
tiny and I&rsquo;m weak and I&rsquo;m not in full control of myself
any more&mdash;I&rsquo;d be no good in a fight. I will be a good
Chanchukian boy and defer to my mates on this one, but I have a
suggestion and it&rsquo;s Butar. <em>Kaotan&rsquo;s</em> crew more
than any gave its all, and she did tremendously at Chanchuk, even
to making the hard choices.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In discussions with the others it seems I am elected, and
I admit I want to go,&rdquo; Butar Killomen told them. &ldquo;I am
somewhat awkward on land but I can make do and I have a low
profile. And I can shoot straight and have excellent night
vision.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s four,&rdquo; Hawks said.
&ldquo;Takya&mdash;your group controls the ring with the
rings.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was silence for a moment, then Takya replied, &ldquo;I can
tell by your tone that you&rsquo;d rather we passed,&rdquo; she
said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t deny you a place, but we are going on to a
world with a bright sun, in conditions that will call for daylight
action. We will be as far on that world as you can get from an
ocean or sea and we will be heading away from any such places. You
would have to spend all your time in a water-filled filtered
pressure suit and move using the flying belt. I can certainly use
your toughness and fighting skills, but you will be out of your
element there. Still, if you insist, I have no choice but to take
one of you. You know that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We do. Perhaps the most courageous thing a warrior can do
is to admit when he is a burden. We pass. We will patrol your rear
out here, where we are on a more equal footing. <em>Kaotan</em> is
well represented by Butar. You wear our ring, Hawks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I very much thank you for that,&rdquo; he told them
sincerely. &ldquo;All right, then, two slots to fill. One I think
is essential, even though I have many grave reservations. China,
it&rsquo;s your father we&rsquo;ll be dealing with and without you
we couldn&rsquo;t have gone anywhere or done anything. You
understand computers and interfaces better than anyone aboard,
perhaps even Clayben, and you have a right to come.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&mdash;I understand your problems,&rdquo; she told him.
&ldquo;Yet I feel I must be there, if only to represent Star Eagle.
I understand what a burden I will be. I know what a liability I am.
A blind woman in strange terrain, her belly over eight months
pregnant. Still, I feel somehow that I must be there. At least I
have the headgear that will give me limited sight when I need it. I
haven&rsquo;t used it in years but it still works, I am
certain.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right.&rdquo; Hawks sighed. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re in.
And, because I want as much experience and technical prowess as
well as political savvy on the ground with me, I&rsquo;d like to
take Doctor Clayben. It will be your job to counter anything fancy
they might come up with, Doctor. And I can think of no one better
qualified to explain what we might see than you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is the height of my entire life,&rdquo; Clayben
responded, sounding genuinely pleased and perhaps a bit relieved.
&ldquo;In the past I might have been, well, less than trustworthy,
but I have learned a lot in this strange odyssey of ours. I will
get you there, all of you. My previous life was in fooling and
foiling such men, and I know these directors well.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks gave a long sigh. &ldquo;All right, then, that&rsquo;s it.
<em>Bahakatan</em> should be checked and turned around as quickly
as possible as soon as it gets in. Load the probes and other
devices or mate them to the outer hull. We want continuous contact.
Maria, you take command of the ship and get those probes and
monitors into position. As soon as it is possible, land the
transmitter near the camp and send Cloud Dancer down. Then return
here where all of us who are going will load up our supplies and
equipment and go. Doctor, whatever magic boxes you can come up
with, we&rsquo;ll need. <em>Chunhoifan</em> is to be tied into our
communications net and patrol in or near Earth orbit to cover our
immediate rear. I may well have to call in almost any nasty weapon
you have, Takya, so be fully armed and prepared and watch out for
any attempts on your ship from Master System. If I have to call in
a strike on myself, though, I&rsquo;ll do it. Midi, you&rsquo;ll
fly <em>Bahakatan</em> and pull it out of there after we&rsquo;ve
been dropped and join Takya on near station. <em>Lightning</em>
will remain in its early-warning post and should continue
activating and arming any other big ships that it can. Star Eagle,
you will be in complete command here and will be coordinator, but
get <em>Thunder</em> turned and in position in case you need to
fire up. Understood? Don&rsquo;t try to rescue any of us. Pick up
who you can and get out if you can.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We will see,&rdquo; the pilot responded. &ldquo;Very
well, though, we&rsquo;ll set up as best we can.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks looked around at all of them, as satisfied as he could be,
but his final comment, muttered aloud, was really to himself.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;re back, as we promised.&rdquo; He sighed.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m coming home.&rdquo;</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide10.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide12.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

