<html>

<head>
<title>Foreword</title>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 3.0">
<meta name="Microsoft Theme" content="none, default">
<meta name="Microsoft Border" content="none, default">
</head>

<body>

<h3 id="_RWTOC-1">Foreword</h3>

<p>PEOPLE SOMETIMES ASK me whether the title Jack of Shadows was intended to sound like a
description of a playing card used in some arcane game, as well as representing my
protagonist's name and a matter of geography. Answer: Yes. I've long been fascinated by
odd decks of cards, and I had an extensive collection of them at one time. </p>

<p>&quot;Ha!&quot; they usually respond on hearing this admission. &quot;Then this
business about the cards and the reference to shadows ties this story in at some
subterranean psychological level with your Amber books, right?&quot; </p>

<p>Well, no. The last time I was down in the catacombs I couldn't locate any connection. I
was simply attracted by the imagery. On the other hand, nobody ever asked me, &quot;Why
Jack?&quot;</p>

<p>I could have answered that one: Jack Vance.</p>

<p>In this, my tenth book, I'd decided to try for something on the order of those rare and
exotic settings I admired so much in so many of Jack Vance's stories. It seemed only fair
then, once I'd worked things out, to find a title with &quot;Jack&quot; in it as a private
bit of homage publicly displayed. Now you all know. </p>

<p>I suppose the inferences concerning a relationship to Amber could have been
strengthened, though, by the fact that this book came out between the publication of Nine
Princes in Amber and The Guns of Avalon, the first two books in that series&#151;proximity
breeding speculation and like that. </p>

<p>But while the setting may owe something to Jack Vance, the character doesn't. I took my
opening quotation from The Merchant of Venice only because it seemed so apt once I'd pried
it free of its context. The Shakespearean work to which I actually do owe a debt here came
along about eight years after Merchant. I refer to Macbeth. True, Birnam Wood does not
come against Jack, and the play contains no quote I wanted to uproot and employ here. But
Jack's character undergoes an interesting progression, which owes something to
Shakespeare's portrait of the bloody Scot. I don't care to say anything more about it,
though, because I feel that introductory pieces should not spoil story lines. Someone
named J. 1. M. Stewart almost ruined Vanity Fair for me that way years ago. </p>

<p>This was not one of my experimental books, such as Creatures of Light and Darkness,
Doorways in the Sand, Bridge of Ashes, Roadmarks or Eye of Cat. Those are the five wherein
I worked out lots of techniques I used in many of the others. This was a more workmanlike
job in that I knew exactly what I wanted to do and how to do it, with the
protagonist&#151;as usual&#151;indicating the direction. Of the five, only Creatures of
Light and Darkness preceded Jack of Shadows. Looking back upon jack in this light, I do
feel that I might have gained a certain facility there for the brief, impressionistic
description of the exotic which could have carried over into both Nine Princes and Jack.
And maybe not. But if it owes it anything, that's it. </p>

<p>It is interesting to me, too, in looking at a story across the years this way, to see
it in terms of what came after as well as what preceded it. I do feel that the shadow of
Jack fell upon the protagonist of Today We Choose Faces. Also, there is something of
Jack's sardonic attitude as well as his caution in the later tales of Dilvish the
Damned&#151;another wrongfully punished man whose character was twisted by the act. </p>

<p>I have also been asked several times whether the name that Jack assumes
Dayside&#151;Jonathan Shade&#151;owes anything to the character of that name in Nabokov's
Pale Fire. Sorry. While I do enjoy playing an occasional literary puzzle game, I wrote
Jack of Shadows before I came to PALE FIRE. </p>

<p>And yes, I did once do a short graphic prequel to this book (&quot;Shadowjack&quot;) in
collaboration with artist Gray Morrow, in The Illustrated Roger Zelazny. And no, nothing
in that story is essential to the understanding or enjoyment of this one. It is a minor
piece, and totally independent. So this is the story that Jack built&#151;with a little
help from me on the paperwork. Picture him if you will as a Figure on a playing card. Make
it a Tarot. Maybe the Broken Tower. . .</p>
</body>
</html>
