<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Dawn of Amber</title>
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="amber.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide12.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide14.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">ELEVEN</h2>

<p>Utter silence followed. I took a quick glance down the length of
the table. To a one, my every half-brother and half-sister, even
Locke, had a look of stunned disbelief on his or her face. They
took their magical powers for granted, I realized. That one of
their own might be unable to use them&mdash;unbelievable!</p>

<p>And yet it was true. Despite my anger and hurt and earlier
denial, I could find no reason for Dworkin to lie to me. If
anything, he needed me to go through the
Logrus&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;needed another strong son to help
defend Juniper. Clearly such a task now lay beyond my meager,
mortal abilities.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How can that be?&rdquo; Freda finally asked, looking
troubled. &ldquo;Anyone born of Chaos carries the Logrus within. It
is a part of our very essence. You have said it yourself many times
over, Father.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dworkin said, &ldquo;He does carry
it&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;only it has gone wrong within
him.&rdquo; Slowly shaking his head, he regarded me thoughtfully.
&ldquo;I do not know why or how, but the problems we have all
had&mdash;except of course you, Locke&mdash;with the Logrus are so
much the worse in him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But to forbid him from ever trying the Logrus!&rdquo;
Aber protested. &ldquo;That has never been done before!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I did not forbid him,&rdquo; Dworkin said sharply.
&ldquo;I said it would kill him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is the same thing,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perhaps the problem is simpler than you realize,&rdquo;
Locke said, leaning back and regarding me with a half taunting,
half triumphant smile. He clearly scented my blood and was moving
in for the kill, the strong attacking the weak. &ldquo;Perhaps his
mother whored around on you. It wouldn&rsquo;t be the first time we
had a bastard in the family.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I rose from my chair smoothly and silently. &ldquo;Take that
back,&rdquo; I said, voice cold as a grave, &ldquo;while you still
can.&rdquo; If I&rsquo;d had my sword, I would have drawn it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oberon! Sit!&rdquo; Dworkin barked. &ldquo;Locke,
apologize.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My nerves stretched toward their breaking point. Nobody had ever
insulted my mother and lived. If not for Dworkin, I would have
leaped across the table and twisted Locke&rsquo;s head off with my
bare hands&mdash;brother or not.</p>

<p>Instead of responding, my half-brother slowly tilted his chair
back on the rear two legs and grinned mockingly at me. &ldquo;The
pup thinks he has teeth.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My voice was hard. &ldquo;More than enough to rip your throat
out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shrugged, &ldquo;My apologies, <em>brother.&rdquo;</em> I
noticed how he emphasized the word, like he doubted its truth.
&ldquo;I chose my words with insufficient care. I
<em>meant</em>&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>So softly I almost missed it, Freda hissed, &ldquo;Shut up,
Locke, or I will make you wish you had. This is dinner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Locke glanced at her, looked away, didn&rsquo;t finish. Clearly
he didn&rsquo;t fear me. But could he be afraid of Freda?</p>

<p>She touched my hand softly. &ldquo;Sit, Oberon.
Please.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was not a command, but a soft, kind suggestion, and somehow
it took the fight out of me. I let out my breath and did as she
instructed.</p>

<p>Pointedly, she said, &ldquo;Bickering is forbidden at dinner, as
our <em>brother</em> knows.&rdquo; And her voice carried the same
insulting inflection Locke had used.</p>

<p>In that instant I discovered I liked her even more than I had
known.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo; Dworkin said to Freda. He cleared his
throat. &ldquo;Now, where was I?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dutifully picking up my spoon, I returned to my soup. I
wasn&rsquo;t really hungry anymore, but I couldn&rsquo;t let Locke
know he&rsquo;d spoiled the meal for me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oberon <em>is</em> my son,&rdquo; Dworkin said with
conviction. &ldquo;I have known it since the day he was born. And
my tests here today proved it. The problem lies with the
Logrus&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;it is a damnable mystery still,
even to me. Its pattern is within Oberon&mdash;without any doubt,
it <em>is</em> there&mdash;but some trick of fate, or our
family&rsquo;s poor degenerate blood, has distorted its pattern in
him more than in the rest of us. That is the true and only
answer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Silence stretched again. My siblings stared at the table or the
walls or went back to their soups, now and then glancing furtively
at each other or Dworkin&mdash;anywhere but at me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well done, Locke!&rdquo; Aber finally said after more
than a few awkward minutes had passed. He began clapping.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s the way to make a new-found brother feel at
home and brighten up the dinner conversation.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up!&rdquo; Locke growled at him.</p>

<p>Then Freda began clapping, then Blaise and Pella, then most of
the others. Dworkin threw back his head and howled with
laughter.</p>

<p>I stared from one to another, bewildered. This was hardly the
reaction I would have expected.</p>

<p>Locke glared around the table, gaze settling first on Aber then
me, but he must have remembered Freda&rsquo;s threat because he
said nothing. Instead, rising, he threw down his napkin and stalked
from the room.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Send up my meal,&rdquo; he called to one of the servants.
&ldquo;I prefer to eat with civilized
company&mdash;alone!&rdquo;</p>

<p>If anything, the applause grew louder.</p>

<p>&ldquo;First time <em>that&rsquo;s</em> ever happened,&rdquo;
Aber said brightly, the moment Locke was safely out of earshot.
&ldquo;Can&rsquo;t say it will hurt the dinner
conversation.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He picked up his bowl and spoon and made a big show of moving to
Locke&rsquo;s former place. As he settled in, he gave me a quick
wink.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey!&rdquo; he said to everyone down at the other end of
the table. &ldquo;The food tastes better up here!&rdquo;</p>

<p>That got a laugh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;from everyone except
Davin, who sat next to him. He was Locke&rsquo;s right-hand man, I
reminded myself. Clearly he took that position seriously. He
frowned, and I half expected him to rise and leave, too, in a show
of solidarity&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;but he didn&rsquo;t.</p>

<p>Then he glanced at me, and I recognized the look in his
eyes.</p>

<p>It wasn&rsquo;t hate or mistrust.</p>

<p>It was pity.</p>

<p>They now had a cripple in their midst, I realized suddenly. They
could all work wonders like Dworkin. All travel through
Shadow-worlds, summon weapons from great distances, contact each
other with magical Trumps, and only the gods knew what else.</p>

<p>And now they <em>pitied</em> me, like the soldier who had lost
his sword-arm in battle and would never fight again, or the scribe
who had gone blind from too much reading. They pitied me because I
would never share our family&rsquo;s one great
gift&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the Logrus.</p>

<p>As I looked across their faces, not one of them met my gaze.
They all felt the same way, I saw. Only Freda and Aber seemed
willing to accept me as I was.</p>

<p>Freda was patting my arm.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You do not need the Logrus,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;It
almost killed Father and me, you know. I lay unconscious for nearly
a month after I completed it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh?&rdquo; That interested me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is supposed to be a family problem.&rdquo; She lowered
her voice so only I could hear. &ldquo;Locke had the least trouble.
Poor breeding, if you ask me. Dad had him by his first wife, a Lady
of Chaos&mdash;an arranged marriage, you know, well before he
inherited his title. The biggest mistake he ever made was falling
in love with her; he said it a hundred times if he&rsquo;s said it
once.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I forced a chuckle.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo; I told her softly. &ldquo;It helps to
have a friend.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;None of us is truly your friend,&rdquo; she said softly,
but in an almost wistful tone. &ldquo;Trust no one, but love us
anyway, even Locke, since we <em>are</em> family. Betrayal is our
nature and we cannot change, none of us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I regarded her curiously, thinking of Ivinius. Could this be a
confession? Or just the bittersweet words of a woman who had been
hurt too often by those around her?</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re too much of a pessimist,&rdquo; I finally
said. &ldquo;I prefer to think of everyone as a friend until
it&rsquo;s proved otherwise.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You are naive, dear Oberon.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been disappointed in the
past&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;but I have also been pleasantly
surprised.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She smiled. &ldquo;You do not truly know us.
Soon&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;too soon, I fear, you will.&rdquo;
She patted my arm again. &ldquo;You do have a good heart. I admire
that. Now finish your soup.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I took a few more spoonfuls to satisfy her, but I didn&rsquo;t
enjoy them. Mostly I wanted to be alone
now&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;to think things through, to
reconsider the day&rsquo;s events. So much had happened, and so
quickly, that I could barely take it in.</p>

<p>Locke&rsquo;s departure had definitely lightened the mood around
the table, though. Small conversations resumed around us, and the
next course came right on schedule: braised pheasant, or a game
bird close enough to pheasant that it didn&rsquo;t matter,
accompanied by spicy roasted potatoes and strange yellow vegetables
the size of walnuts that tasted, somehow, like fresh salmon.</p>

<p>I ate slowly, eavesdropping on the chatter around me: Davin
telling Titus and Conner about a new horse he had broken to saddle.
Blaise telling Pella and Isadora about a kitchen scandal involving
the pastry chef and a pair of scullery maids; apparently
she&rsquo;s just heard it from one of the seamstresses, who had
gotten it straight from the herb gardener. Aber and Freda talked
about new Trumps that Aber planned to paint. And
Dworkin&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Dad&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;looked
down across us all and smiled like the benevolent ruler he so
desperately wanted to be.</p>

<p>Almost pointedly, nobody discussed
me&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;or so much as looked in my direction.
Being ignored hurt almost as much as being insulted.</p>

<p><em>Oberon the weak.</em></p>

<p><em>Oberon the cripple.</em></p>

<p><em>Oberon the doomed-to-be-powerless.</em></p>

<p>There <em>must</em> be an answer, I thought. Maybe
Dworkin&mdash;<em>Dad,</em> I corrected myself&mdash;had made a
mistake. Maybe a true version of the Logrus <em>did</em> exist
somewhere within me, only he hadn&rsquo;t seen it.
Maybe&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>No. I couldn&rsquo;t give in to wishful thinking. I forced all
thoughts of the Logrus from my mind. After all, I told myself,
I&rsquo;d spent my whole life with no knowledge of it or the powers
it bestowed. For years I&rsquo;d relied on my wits and the strength
of my arm. I didn&rsquo;t need Dworkin&rsquo;s tricks, nor magic
cards nor spells, just a good sword and a sturdy horse.</p>

<p>As servants cleared our plates in preparation for the next
course, Dad leaned back in his seat and focused his gaze on
Davin.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How are the new recruits working out?&rdquo; he
asked.</p>

<p>At last something I knew, I thought, leaning forward and
regarding Davin with interest. Hopefully Locke managed troops
better than he managed relations within our family.</p>

<p>&ldquo;As well as can be expected,&rdquo; Davin said. He gave a
short report, mentioning company names like &ldquo;Eagles&rdquo;
and &ldquo;Bears&rdquo; and &ldquo;Wolves,&rdquo; none of which
meant anything to me. A company could have been anything from a
hundred to a thousand men, depending on how it had been set up.</p>

<p>The report seemed to satisfy Dad, though. I also liked what I
heard. Locke and Davin seemed to have a solid grasp of military
matters. From the sound of things, their newest recruits had begun
to pull together into an able combat force and would be ready to
join the rest of the troops in just a few weeks.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How many men are under your command?&rdquo; I asked
Davin, hoping to win a few points with him by showing an interest.
Perhaps he could use whatever influence he had with Locke to put us
on better terms.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nearly two hundred thousand,&rdquo; he said off-handedly.
&ldquo;Give us another year and we will have half a
million&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the finest force ever assembled,
if I do say so myself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We may not have a year,&rdquo; Dworkin said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Did you say&mdash;two hundred <em>thousand?&rdquo;</em>
The number shocked me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, a few thousand more, actually,&rdquo; Davin said
with a little shrug. &ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t seen the latest figures
yet. More keep arriving all the time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where are they coming from?&rdquo; I wasn&rsquo;t sure
all of Ilerium had that many able-bodied fighting men.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, far and wide.&rdquo; He met my gaze. &ldquo;We
recruit from a dozen Shadows, including some where we are
worshipped as gods. They are eager to join.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I would have guessed fifteen or twenty thousand men in
total,&rdquo; I said, thinking back to the size of the camp around
the castle. Their numbers made King Elnar&rsquo;s fight against the
hell-creatures look like an alley brawl in comparison. &ldquo;Where
do you keep them all quartered?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There are additional companies stationed to the north and
east of Juniper. We only have so much space around the castle,
after all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;With a tenth that many,&rdquo; I mused aloud, &ldquo;it
would be a simple matter to drive the hell-creatures from Ilerium
once and for all&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Davin brayed with laughter. I flushed, realizing how ridiculous
that must have sounded to him. Ilerium was but one world amidst all
the Shadows cast by the Courts of Chaos, meaningless to anyone
except me&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;and well beyond the concern of
anyone else at this table. Never mind that I had spent the last
twenty years there, and that I had dedicated my life to serving my
king and my country.</p>

<p>And never mind that those vows still weighed on me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;With you gone,&rdquo; Dworkin reminded me in gentle
tones, &ldquo;the enemy no longer has any reason to attack Ilerium.
They will leave it alone to concentrate on other
battles.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Like here,&rdquo; I said, realizing the truth.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;ve brought all these soldiers to
Juniper, isn&rsquo;t it. You&rsquo;re getting ready for an
attack.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very good!&rdquo; Davin said in lightly mocking tones, a
pale imitation of Locke now. &ldquo;Give the man a
prize.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I gave a shrug and did not bother to reply. Sometimes it&rsquo;s
better to say nothing. Locke had taken an instant dislike to me,
and Davin had obviously taken his cue and done the same. Even so, I
hoped they both might eventually be won over as
allies&mdash;perhaps even as friends&mdash;with some effort on my
part.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;Two hundred thousand
men&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;all fully trained? Armed and armored?
Ready for battle?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Davin smiled. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s right. We&rsquo;ve been
preparing them for a year now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I frowned. &ldquo;The logistics of keeping such a
force&mdash;the food supply alone, not to mention the costs! How is
it possible? Juniper looks well off, but surely it can&rsquo;t
support a standing army of such size for long!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All we need is taken from Shadow,&rdquo; Davin said with
a grand wave of his arm. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re worshipped as gods on
countless thousands of worlds. People are happy to tithe us all we
need&mdash;food, weapons, gold, jewels. Everything.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But why so many? Do we really <em>need</em> two hundred
thousand men? Or half a million? How many hell-creatures do you
expect will attack?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Freda said, &ldquo;If we command this many, so too may other
Lords of Chaos. They have had longer to
prepare&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;they might well command more.
Perhaps millions more.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I found the numbers incredible. That my family could sustain a
force of two hundred thousand, let alone train and manage it, spoke
greatly of their general competence in such matters.</p>

<p>Dworkin said, &ldquo;An attack is coming, and soon. Freda has
seen it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In her cards?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I glanced at her, and she gave a little nod.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Soon,&rdquo; she said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oberon <em>has</em> given me some good news,
though,&rdquo; Dworkin said happily. &ldquo;Taine is
alive.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There were exclamations all around the table.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How? Where?&rdquo; Freda demanded.</p>

<p>I took a minute to tell them of my dream or vision or whatever
it had been&mdash;the few details I could still recall, anyway.
Dworkin had to remind me of several key points as I stumbled
through the narrative.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you certain it was real?&rdquo; Davin asked me,
sounding more than a little skeptical.</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, I&rsquo;m not,&rdquo; I said. I had more than a few
doubts myself. &ldquo;I have no experience in such
things.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dworkin said, &ldquo;Remember, Oberon has never been to the
Courts of Chaos. He had never even heard of it before today. In his
dream, however, the blood flowed <em>up.</em> That is a detail he
could not have guessed or imagined. I believe his vision is true.
Somewhere, somehow, Taine is still alive.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Indeed,&rdquo; Freda said.</p>

<p>Davin looked thoughtful suddenly and regarded me with what I
thought was a new-found respect.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The question now,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;is what do we
do? How can we rescue Taine?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perhaps his Trump&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; Aber
said.</p>

<p>Freda shook her head. &ldquo;I have tried that too many times
now. He cannot be reached.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;When was the last time?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>She thought carefully before replying. &ldquo;Perhaps two weeks
ago.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It never hurts to try again,&rdquo; Dworkin said.
&ldquo;Perhaps, knowing he is alive, you will have a better chance
of reaching him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I will try,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;as soon as dinner is
over. We should all try.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There were murmurs of agreement from all present. It seemed they
all had Trumps depicting Taine and could use them.</p>

<p>I felt a measure of pride. Perhaps I <em>was</em> more than a
cripple after all. Maybe I had my own form of magic to fall back
upon&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;visions that showed more than
Freda&rsquo;s Trumps.</p>

<p>Servants began bringing in platters bearing the next
course&mdash;cubes of beef, nicely pink and steaming, artfully
arranged with waxy looking yellow-and-red striped beans.
Unfortunately, as delicious as it looked, I found my appetite
completely gone. A restlessness came over me, a need to get up and
do something active rather than sit and wait for the meal to
end.</p>

<p>Pointedly, I stifled a yawn.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t mind,&rdquo; I said to Dworkin,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d like to retire. Everything I&rsquo;ve been through
today is starting to catch up with me. I&rsquo;m going to fall
asleep in this chair if I don&rsquo;t get some rest.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Off you go, then.&rdquo; He made shooing motions with his
fork. &ldquo;Pleasant dreams, my boy. I will send for you again
tomorrow. There are still a few matters we must discuss.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, Dad,&rdquo; I said, rising.</p>

<p>Freda, Aber, and all the rest&mdash;even Davin&mdash;bade me
good night. They all had interesting expressions on their faces:
not so much pity, now, as a kind of awe or wonder. I might not be
able to walk the Logrus as they had done, but it seemed I shared at
least some of their powers. Dworkin had been right to show it off
before them. This way they wouldn&rsquo;t dismiss me outright, the
way Locke had done.</p>

<p>I strode out into the corridor, pausing only long enough to get
my bearings. Although exhaustion really did threaten to overwhelm
me, I knew I had work to do: Ivinius&rsquo;s body remained hidden
behind that tapestry. I had to dispose of it without being
seen.</p>

<p>Instead of going back to my rooms, however, I decided to explore
the castle a bit more. There might be a safe, easy passage
out&mdash;I just had to find it.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, every way I turned, I found more servants moving
on errands or scrubbing the floors or changing candles or filling
reserves in oil lamps. The castle&rsquo;s staff had to number in
the hundreds.</p>

<p>I passed one of the guard rooms Aber had pointed out earlier
that afternoon. Through the open door, it looked like any of a
hundred guard rooms I&rsquo;d seen over the years&mdash;a rack of
swords against the far wall, armor and shields on wooden pegs, a
table and plenty of sturdy chairs.</p>

<p>At the moment, three guards sat at the table throwing dice.
Unfortunately, the one facing the door recognized me&mdash;the
moment he saw my face, he leaped to his feet.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Lord!&rdquo; he cried. He saluted, and the other two
shoved back their chairs and did the same.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Please, continue with your game.&rdquo; I gave a polite
wave, then strolled on. No need to involve them; they were probably
off duty and unwinding from a long day&rsquo;s work.</p>

<p>Kitchens&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;servants&rsquo;
quarters&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the still-guarded corridor by
Dad&rsquo;s workshop&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the main
hall&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;everywhere I went, I found people.
Lots of people. And all seemed to recognize me. Clearly, I thought
with some frustration, getting Ivinius out of Juniper would not be
as easy as I&rsquo;d hoped.</p>

<p>Then I remembered Aber&rsquo;s gift&mdash;my own set of Trumps.
I could make them work on my own&mdash;after all, I had been able
to contact my brother earlier from Dworkin&rsquo;s horseless
carriage. Perhaps I could use one now to get rid
of&nbsp;Ivinius&rsquo;s body. Frowning, I tried to recall all their
pictures. I had barely glanced at them&mdash;but hadn&rsquo;t one
showed a forest glade with Juniper in the distance? That would be
perfect, I thought.</p>

<p>Excited now, I hurried back up to my rooms. The hinges squeaked
when I entered. Servants had lit an oil lamp on the writing table,
but everything else looked just as I had left it: my sword across
the back of one of the chairs, the stand and washbasin beside the
now-dark windows, the desk shoved up against the wall, its paper,
ink, and blotters all in slight disarray.</p>

<p>The carved wooden box containing my set of Trumps sat atop the
stack of unused towels on the tray atop the washstand.</p>

<p>Feeling a growing sense of elation, I opened the little box and
pulled out my stack of Trumps. They felt cool and hard as ivory in
my hands. Slowly, one by one, I leafed through them. Portraits came
first:
Aber&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Locke&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Pella&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Blaise&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Freda&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>Yes&mdash;there was the one I needed! With a trembling hand, I
drew forth the card I had half remembered. It showed a dark forest
glade, lush grass underfoot, trees all around, with Juniper&rsquo;s
towers just visible in the distance. This seemed an ideal place to
dump a body&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;far enough from Juniper to be
safe from any immediate discovery. Let Ivinius&rsquo;s masters try
to figure out what had happened to him!</p>

<p>Card in hand, I started for the sitting room. Then I stopped
myself. How would I get back after I&rsquo;d disposed of the body?
I gave a chuckle. I was catching on to this game of Trumps&mdash;I
would need one to bring me safely home.</p>

<p>I returned to my set of cards, selected the one that I had
confiscated from Aber, which showed my bedroom, and only then
headed for the sitting room. This would be a fast and simple job
using magic, I thought. I would go to the glade, dump the body, and
come straight home.</p>

<p>Hurrying now, I swept back the tapestry.</p>

<p>My elation died. I had come back too late.</p>

<p>The body had disappeared.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide12.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide14.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

