<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Lords Of The Middle Dark</title>
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="ring.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide8.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide10.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">8. THE RAVEN AND THE WARLOCK</h2>

<p class="noindent">THE ILLINOIS VILLAGE WAS IN TURMOIL. Two of
their best warriors dead, a dramatic escape by the two whom the
chief had called his &ldquo;playthings,&rdquo; Chief Roaring Bull
himself kidnapped, a slave woman missing, and a boat, supplies, and
weapons stolen&mdash;it all made the rest of them feel downright
<em>insecure.</em> The chief&rsquo;s eldest son, along with the
rest of the clan, met to decide just what action to take.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re long gone,&rdquo; some argued. &ldquo;Far
downriver in foul weather. If they don&rsquo;t drown, they&rsquo;ll
be out of reach before we can get the word down to stop
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But it&rsquo;s bad for business,&rdquo; others argued.
&ldquo;What if word gets around that this was done to us? Who will
fear us and pay us tribute then? It will give the others
ideas.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>They</em> won&rsquo;t be bragging, if they survive at
all,&rdquo; the first group argued. &ldquo;The man&rsquo;s on the
run from Council. He won&rsquo;t even mention this. As for Chief
Roaring Bull, they&rsquo;re certain to kill him when he&rsquo;s no
longer needed, if they haven&rsquo;t already. You heard what the
girls said about that pair. They smelled of death. I say we bottle
it up here. Anyone, at any time, who speaks of this to anyone, even
among ourselves, shall at the very least lose his or her tongue and
suffer torments. Let us tighten our own security and our tongues
and go on as before.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And what of the chief?&rdquo; the others responded.
&ldquo;How will we explain his death? It is bound to get
out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Everybody knows he was a steady fire drinker. We&rsquo;ll
just say he got drunk and mad at somebody on the river one day and
went out there. That&rsquo;ll explain the body, no matter what the
condition. He&rsquo;s never going to tell anyone
different.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They all looked at Black Bear Foot, the chief&rsquo;s eldest son
and heir apparent. A very imposing man in his own right, he had sat
impassively listening to the debate without getting involved. Now
the man they would make chief spoke.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, but what if father manages to come back
alive?&rdquo; he asked nervously. He had not always been the eldest
son, but his late half brother had gotten too ambitious too fast.
Some of the same men who now offered Black Bear Foot the leadership
had encouraged his brother, then lost their nerve and betrayed him
when faced with the wrath of Roaring Bull.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now listen and hear what I say,&rdquo; he said gravely.
&ldquo;The two who failed to watch the strangers will take one
canoe, and the two who were so afraid of getting wet that they
allowed the chief to be taken will go in another. One of you will
bring back the chief, or his body, or all four of you will wish
that you were dead, though you will not die. Understand?&rdquo;</p>

<p>They understood, but they didn&rsquo;t like it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Also, send runners south on both sides of the Mississippi
to contact our allies. Tell them only the story that Roaring Bull
got drunk and was lost on the river and that we seek him and fear
his capture by traders who bear grudges against him. Tell them that
they will get a great reward if the chief is returned alive and a
lesser reward if dead, but if dead, they will get the same great
reward if they also return his killers, dead or alive. Got it? Then
go!&rdquo;</p>

<p>Those who would travel left to prepare, but the rest of the
council remained in session to work out the details in the
chief&rsquo;s absence. They were still hard at it when two
strangers rode right into the village on horseback and stopped all
there dead in their tracks.</p>

<p>The man on the brown horse was a Crow from the northwest
mountains. An unexpected sight this far from his tribal territory,
he was a striking man with a mean and fearsome look about him. He
was dressed in full fur and buckskin and had a hard, tough, nasty
face that seemed more a natural rock formation than a human
feature. His eyes were narrowed and mean-looking, and he chomped on
a half-smoked but unlit Caribe cigar. Observers could tell in an
instant that he would no more hesitate to kill a man than to swat a
fly; to stop him, one would need ten good men, all willing to die
themselves.</p>

<p>With him, however, astride a huge black stallion, was a figure
even more imposing and out of place. She was very tall, taller than
the Crow, who was no little man, and her skin was as black as the
blackest night. Her hair, straight and cut very short, was blacker
than her skin, and her features were as perfect as finely chiseled
black marble. Her clothing, tailored to her statuesque proportions,
consisted of a sleeveless tunic made of beaver and mink with pants
and even boots to match. Her arms looked smooth, but when they
moved, tremendous muscles and great power were evident. Her eyes
were cold, her bearing aloof. None needed to be told that these
were very dangerous people. Here was a Crow Agency man, one of
those who worked for Council security, and with him a visitor from
a far place who unquestionably held the same sort of job in some
distant land.</p>

<p>They rode right up to the tribal council meeting and halted but
did not dismount. The Crow Agency man gave them a look that seemed
to chill them all, as if he felt in the mood to massacre an entire
tribe. The lady, on the other hand, gave the impression that
she&rsquo;d rather slowly torture them first.</p>

<p>Black Bear Foot decided he really didn&rsquo;t need this kind of
trouble, but he sighed and got up. If his father didn&rsquo;t come
back, this would determine whether he survived to take over. He,
too, had a lot of younger half brothers who wouldn&rsquo;t mind the
job in the least.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am Black Bear Foot, acting chief of this tribe until
the return of my father,&rdquo; he said in his native tongue. He
didn&rsquo;t care if they understood it or not: That was their
problem. In fact, he kind of hoped that they didn&rsquo;t share
<em>any</em> common languages. Maybe then they&rsquo;d give up and
go away. &ldquo;If you come in peace and friendship, you are
welcome to share our fire and our hospitality,&rdquo; the acting
chief added grudgingly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where&rsquo;s your father, sonny boy?&rdquo; the Crow
asked in a voice that was deep, raspy, and all-around unpleasant.
He spoke excellent Illinois. Black Bear Foot thought the man
sounded as a corpse might sound if it could speak.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You have no call to break the Covenant,&rdquo; the young,
would-be chief responded, deciding that only bravado meant anything
to this pair. &ldquo;If I were to speak that way to someone of my
position in the land of the Crow, your people would have my skin
stretched across poles. You may have my life and surrender yours,
but I will have respect in my own village and among my own people
from any visitor.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The speech seemed to impress and also disturb the Crow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know we act in the name of the Council,&rdquo; the
Crow Agency man said menacingly, but the mere fact that he said it
showed some hesitancy. He obviously was not used to having someone
stand up to him on anything, except perhaps <em>her.</em></p>

<p>&ldquo;You mean you are in the employ of Council. The way you
act and treat those who would offer you hospitality is not the
Council way or the way of the Covenant. You may act in the name of
the Council, but I doubt if the Council would approve of the way
you act.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The Crow smiled, although the expression looked grotesque and
unnatural on him. The black woman remained impassive.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re right,&rdquo; the Crow admitted. There were
almost audible sighs of relief from the crowd. &ldquo;These are
extraordinary circumstances, son, and our mission takes precedence
over everything else, even the Covenant, but it doesn&rsquo;t
excuse improper manners. You couldn&rsquo;t manage my name in your
language, so just call me Raven. Everybody does. The lady also has
an untranslatable name, but the sounds are there. She is called
Manka Warlock, and she is in the Caribe what I am in the western
mountains. Her mere presence here should show you that this is
something very important.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It did. The Caribe and their tropical islands were placed in the
South American District and did not work for Council at all or have
authority here even from on high. That, Black Bear Foot suspected,
was why the Crow was here: He, too, was out of his normal region,
but a Council man was a Council man no matter what his tribe and
nation.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We are looking for a man. Late thirties, Hyiakutt but a
linguist and a Council worker on Leave. He might be traveling with
a Hyiakutt woman, medium, good build, early thirties. I know what
this place is and what it does. They got past us up north; I doubt
if they got past you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The young man sighed. &ldquo;They were here. They&mdash;picked
up supplies and went on this morning down the river.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The Crow Agency man gave the acting chief a hard look.
&ldquo;Probably about three in the morning with your father as
hostage from the looks of things. Don&rsquo;t worry. I really
don&rsquo;t know those whom we seek, but this village and your
father have a reputation that reaches to the upper end of the
Missouri. That, and I see the two bodies back there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My father and some of those he trusted were
careless,&rdquo; the young man told him, deciding to tell the
truth. &ldquo;The strangers did not seem dangerous. Their canoe was
swamped. They were brought in naked and carrying
nothing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh huh. Only helpless. So they got you good, took the
chief, and you&rsquo;re all here in a prayer meeting praying to the
Great Spirit that they don&rsquo;t send him back. That about
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. Even now those responsible are being dispatched to
chase them down the river, while runners prepare to notify our
allies. I mean to have their hides and my father back
alive.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Raven turned to the woman and spoke in a strange language.
&ldquo;They were here, naked. Lost everything when the canoe went
over, probably from that hypno shield. They fought their way out
and snatched the chief early this morning. I figure five, maybe six
hours tops. What do you think?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think we had better go on the river,&rdquo; she
responded without changing her gaze. &ldquo;We will never catch
them this way, and we would need to be ferried from this point as
it is. I think we underestimated our little historian and his
native wench, but they have nothing, you say.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing tangible, but he wouldn&rsquo;t be running so
hard and so bloody if he hadn&rsquo;t read &rsquo;em all through.
He knows what those papers said. He&rsquo;s the only one in the
whole area who could read &rsquo;em, and he finds &rsquo;em. The
hell with the papers. He&rsquo;s the papers now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded. &ldquo;Very well. He is on the run from Council and
from these people. He will not be moving fast but
cautiously.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The Crow switched back to Illinois. &ldquo;Do you know where he
is trying to go?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My father said he was trying to reach Nawlins. He is in
trouble and needs an ally in Council.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Raven thought a moment. &ldquo;Mud Runner! Got to be!&rdquo; he
said in the black woman&rsquo;s Caribe English.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who is this Mud Runner person?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Resident Agent. Probably an old pal. He&rsquo;s set up in
the swamps south of Nawlins.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded again. &ldquo;Good. That means that he must keep to
the river. It is a very long way to Nawlins from here, even longer
when you must guard against your own shadow. We will proceed by
water.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah, but these slobs couldn&rsquo;t catch their own
dinner with a net, and we&rsquo;re both on unfamiliar ground.
We&rsquo;ll go right past him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perhaps,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;If so, it will only
delay things. We know where he is going.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. And if they sic a Val on him, what then?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If these pirates had killed him, what then? We can only
do the possible and play the odds. From the looks of things here,
he might make it, even <em>with</em> a Val on his tail. The Val
can&rsquo;t play the percentages. It must check every little piece
of river for him, although it, too, will head for this Mud Runner
in the end. We must be certain that we get to them
first.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You ever think this could put a Val on <em>our</em>
tails? Whatever this is, it&rsquo;s <em>big.</em> Big enough for a
guy to throw it all away and go wild. Big enough to send a Val in
the first place, and maybe all of &rsquo;em.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You have always bragged that you could take a Val. If
they put one or two on us, then you will get the opportunity to
test your theories. Come. We must not remain here long.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah,&rdquo; he sighed. &ldquo;Even if these are our kind
of people.&rdquo;</p>

<br>


<p>Chief Roaring Bull knew his section of the river like the old
hand he was, and he knew balances, shifts, and other ways to manage
an overloaded canoe through occasional rough water and tiny
whirlpools. They learned a great deal from him and crossed the area
where the mighty Missouri dumped into the Mississippi with no more
than minor incidents. Hawks kept him aboard for extra safety, but
the man was quickly passing from an asset to a liability.</p>

<p>Twice they had been hailed from shore or intercepted by canoe,
and twice the old chief had done himself proud talking them out of
any potential dangers. It wasn&rsquo;t that the strangers
weren&rsquo;t suspicious; Hawks had the distinct impression that
the four warriors in the canoe knew or at least suspected exactly
what was going on. But the barely suppressed snickers on their
faces showed that they only took bribes from Roaring Bull; they
really didn&rsquo;t like him any more than anyone else did, and in
the absence of a general alarm or big reward, they really
weren&rsquo;t that upset to see the old boy embarrassed and
compromised. Besides, they could always claim later that they
weren&rsquo;t really <em>sure</em> and that the chief had had ample
opportunities to cause his captors trouble, yet had not.</p>

<p>They passed the site south of the confluence of the rivers where
once, Hawks knew, a mighty complex of cities had stood. Nothing was
there now; the forests on both sides looked virgin and ancient, and
even the foundations of ancient bridges had long ago succumbed to
the power of the river.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is now time to bid you farewell,&rdquo; he told the
old chief. &ldquo;Stand up and do not topple the canoe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Stand up? But you said you would let me off when we
passed the Missouri!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I intend to keep my word. You may leave now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The old man looked around. &ldquo;But we are in the middle of
the river!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I did not promise any more than this. You can swim.
Sooner or later you will make it to shore just by floating and
letting the river carry you. By then we will be long
gone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The old chief glared at him. &ldquo;A curse on you all, then! I
might never know who got you or why, but I look at three of the
walking dead here. Sooner or later, perhaps in hours or days, you
will encounter someone whom you cannot take. Then it will be
over.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jump, fat man. That is our problem.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With a last angry glance, the old chief jumped into the river
and was soon left far behind.</p>

<p>With his weight gone, the canoe became far more manageable and
almost enjoyable to use. Little effort was required except to steer
away from snags and keep within the current.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where do we go now, my fierce warrior?&rdquo; Cloud
Dancer asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Keep an eye out for men digging on a bluff to our right.
It might be any time but will probably not be for some hours. I
overheard the traders at the village say that there was a team from
Council doing some digging along here, and I want to find
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Digging? What sort of digging?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They are finding the remains of nations that were here
not only before us but before the ones who were here after our
ancestors. They will have certain things that we need.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She turned and looked at him. &ldquo;Remains? They are grave
robbers?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;When things get ancient enough, it is no longer grave
robbing but a way to learn how ancient people lived, worked, and
thought. It is why we know so much about our own
ancestors.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She considered that. &ldquo;Grave robbers. A fancy name they
might have for it, but it is disturbing sacred dead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shrugged. If she wanted to think of them as grave robbers,
that was fine with him. Of course, archaeologists <em>were</em>
grave robbers, anyway; it was the motive, not the act, that was the
only difference.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What will these Council grave robbers have that we could
use?&rdquo; she asked him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They will look as if they are of the People, but they
will not be. Probably mostly students and apprentices with only a
couple of experienced elders. Still, somewhere close and probably
hidden from view they will have some of the machines of Council.
They will also have supplies and will be unable to do as much to us
for getting them as even Roaring Bull was.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You mean we are going to rob them?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He grinned. &ldquo;Why should it bother you to rob from grave
robbers?&rdquo;</p>

<p>That seemed to satisfy her sense of morality. The big problem
was in convincing Silent Woman that no one was to be killed in this
or even badly hurt if it could be at all avoided. He needed
supplies and things he could trade downriver, but he wouldn&rsquo;t
mind if he could give them all a treatment with a portable
mindprinter. A commonality of language would be very helpful
indeed, and it was unlikely that these people would have a Hyiakutt
cartridge. He could not give Silent Woman a tongue, but he could
give her understanding.</p>

<p>Silent Woman had been excellent on the trip so far. Her eyes
showed some life again, and she seemed to be enjoying things. It
was impossible, of course, to know what was really going through
her mind, and he wasn&rsquo;t certain he wanted to know. He was
afraid he might not like some of the images there.</p>

<p>The old chief had been correct about her tattoos. Her entire
torso was covered with them, in many colors, and resembled an
intricate design on a blanket. Cloud Dancer, as an artist, had been
absolutely fascinated, and Silent Woman did not seem to mind the
stares and obvious interest. Rather, she seemed pleased by it and
almost proud. Many tribes used tattoos for many things, but Hawks
had never seen anyone literally dressed in them. Whoever had done
it had been a genuine artist in his or her own right. It was
grotesque, but it was a pleasing grotesque, which was just as well:
Even if she died old, she would die with that design.</p>

<p>She had been unable to get the massive bloodstains from her
dress when they made camp, and when her tattoos were more
appreciated than repulsed, she had looked at the nearly naked
couple who had taken her from the Illinois and threw the dress into
the river. It was more than a gesture; as the only thing she owned
and, aside from the shoulder bag, the only tangible remnant from
the Illinois village, she was cutting her last ties with the past
and starting absolutely clean. Anyway, from a distance, the tattoos
made her look clothed.</p>

<p>In the middle of the next day, they spotted the
archaeologists&rsquo; camp. Hawks pulled the canoe in, and they
dragged it up into the brush and hid it as best they could.</p>

<p>The camp was made up of traditional mobile lodges, or tepees,
some quite large, although the dig was small and quite limited. A
dozen young men and women from a large variety of tribes seemed to
be working under the guidance of an older gray-haired man. Most
were dressed as primitively as Hawks and Cloud Dancer, although
their loincloths were professionally made and hung on fine belts
equipped with loops and clips for various tools. Their project
looked well along; they were probably in the last stages before
packing up.</p>

<p>Cloud Dancer was amazed. The sight of men and women working
equally at a hard and exacting task rather than clearly dividing
the labor was unusual to her; to see so many from such obviously
different nations working and laughing together with no suspicion
or animosity was unheard of.</p>

<p>They had clearly decided to live close to the land, and their
camp, for the most part, was just like thousands of small tribal
camps across the plains, but one tepee, the largest, stood out. For
one thing, it had been heavily and cleverly waterproofed. For
another, even Hawks had never before seen a tepee whose door shut
with a heavy zipper.</p>

<p>These people must have developed solid relations with the local
tribes. There was no sign of security. They lived like the natives
of the area lived, and unless one knew just what to look for, there
was no evidence that this was anything more than a transient
village of some strange tribe. At the moment, there were only two
people in the camp: a young man and woman who were ostensibly
tending the cook fire but who seemed more interested in each other
than in the duties at hand. The dig was down an embankment and a
good kilometer or more away from the camp itself; the work could be
heard in the distance. Hawks began to reconsider his idea of a
night attack. Even these people wouldn&rsquo;t trust that the river
wouldn&rsquo;t bring them some threat in the dark.</p>

<p>&lsquo;They probably have local tribesmen come in and guard them
for the night,&rdquo; he told Cloud Dancer.</p>

<p>She looked at the romantic pair. &ldquo;It would be easy to take
those two now. If we wait a bit longer, it is possible we will not
even be noticed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perhaps.&rdquo; He looked at the sun. &ldquo;They are
sure to break for a midday meal. That is what is on the fire. Let
us at least wait until after that and see their routine. I wish no
violence if it can be avoided. Those are no threats.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It appeared that there were always two people remaining in the
camp at any one time, though the intervals of the rotation were
hard to judge. There was only one random event, when the
gray-haired leader and two workers returned carrying something in a
large blanket.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They have dug up a body,&rdquo; Cloud Dancer hissed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The bodies in those places, if they were burial places at
all, would have been dust for centuries,&rdquo; he assured her.
&ldquo;More likely it is an ancient weapon or carving or something
that only they would even recognize as such.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They watched as the workers put the find down and unzipped the
big tent. The leader cursed and came back out, fuming at no one in
particular. They were using English, one of the two common
languages&mdash;Spanish was the other&mdash;of Council.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s no room left in there even to store this
temporarily without risking it,&rdquo; the leader fumed.
&ldquo;We&rsquo;re going to have to find some other place for
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Taking it to the village is out,&rdquo; one of his
helpers, a young woman, responded. &ldquo;They wouldn&rsquo;t have
anything from our dig there on a bet. Probably the best we can do
for now is get some canvas, double wrap it, and stake it down and
arrange to have it taken out as soon as possible.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s only part of it,&rdquo; the chief
archaeologist noted. &ldquo;I think we can get the rest in three or
four hours. We&rsquo;ll chance leaving it here, then wrap and
transport the whole.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks admitted to himself that he&rsquo;d love to know what
they&rsquo;d found, but curiosity had already brought him enough
trouble. He waited until the workers had returned to the dig after
a lunch break; again, a pair remained behind to clean up.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now is our time,&rdquo; he told Cloud Dancer. &ldquo;Try
to make Silent Woman understand. We must act quickly. Use the bow
to cover me, and if I gesture <em>so,</em> shoot convincingly but
not at anyone. Be ready to aid, though, if there is a shout or they
try something.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What if that happens?&rdquo; she asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then we silence them, grab what we can, and run. I said I
wanted no bloodshed, but if it is them or us, I choose
us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded, and he simply got up and walked boldly into the
archaeologists&rsquo; camp. The two there didn&rsquo;t even see him
at first, and when they did, they stared nervously at him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just relax and don&rsquo;t call out,&rdquo; he said in
his accented English. &ldquo;I wish no one to get hurt, but there
are others in the bushes and trees over there who are covering
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The pair looked appalled. &ldquo;Who the hell are you?&rdquo;
the young man asked. &ldquo;We have permission from the treaty
holders to be here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am obviously not with the treaty holders,&rdquo; Hawks
responded, &ldquo;and I have very little time. This is a robbery,
but a limited and civilized one if you just relax and keep
back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s bluffing,&rdquo; the woman said toughly.
&ldquo;He has no one in the trees.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawks made the gesture, and an arrow flew, landing within half a
meter of the young man&rsquo;s left foot.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who are you, and what do you want?&rdquo; the young man
asked him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who I am is irrelevant. Let&rsquo;s just say that Council
would like to talk to me right now, and I am in no mood to talk
with them. I will not disturb your dig or your findings. Take care
just to stand there and do or say no more. I do not need warriors
in the woods to threaten you. All I need do is tell you a simple
fact that I know, and you and everyone here will be killed by
Council. Understand?&rdquo;</p>

<p>They understood. They knew the way the rules worked and probably
why he was now on the run. Forbidden knowledge. It was a sore point
among all the scholars working in the undercouncils.</p>

<p>Hawks went over to the big tepee, unzipped it, and stepped
inside. There was a small battery light just inside the doorway,
and he switched it on.</p>

<p>The place was a mess, that was for sure. What he wanted was a
weatherproof box about a meter deep and fifty centimeters high,
probably with a handle on it and weighing about twenty kilograms.
Not light but very well balanced. He had no trouble finding it,
since it was one of those items that were used often enough that
they were never pushed away in storage. In another pack were a
dozen cartridges, each labeled in black marker. He then located the
small emergency communications pack and made short work of
it&mdash;he didn&rsquo;t want them calling in until he was well
away. The machines could be easily traced when used, but he
intended to be finished with them before somebody was told to
look.</p>

<p>He went back out and was pleased to see that there was no
surprise welcoming committee and that the pair were just standing
there, still staring, not quite knowing what to do. Their eyes
widened when they saw what he was taking. This was unprecedented,
unheard of. Field expeditions had found themselves under siege,
even looted and their members killed, but the systematic theft of a
portable mindprint machine was something that simply had never
occurred to either of them, nor could they understand it.</p>

<p>Hawks was not, however, particularly single-minded.
&ldquo;Where&rsquo;s the liquor cabinet?&rdquo; he asked them.</p>

<p>&lsquo;The what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come on&mdash;I&rsquo;m running out of time and patience!
<em>Where does he keep the booze?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was something in his tone that convinced them. Never argue
with a desperate and dangerous man, that was the rule. Just get the
law after him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;In there,&rdquo; the woman replied, gesturing. &ldquo;A
case in Dr. Kakukua&rsquo;s tepee.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He beckoned for Silent Woman and gave her directions. The two
young people watched, fascinated and horrified by the strange,
silent, naked woman with the garish tattoos, although both made a
note that it would make descriptions of the criminals rather easy.
The doctor, Hawks saw, had only high-quality stuff, none of that
rot-gut brewed by the Illinois. He wished he could take it all, but
Silent Woman was limited by the boxes to about twenty half-liter
bottles. That was good enough.</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right&mdash;now you remain here for a while,&rdquo;
he told them. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m leaving someone over there to make
sure we are well away before you go running off to bring the others
here. They&rsquo;ll shoot a lone arrow into the dirt as they leave
and run for it. You count to five hundred after that and
we&rsquo;ll be gone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He and Silent Woman ran back into the bush. &ldquo;Stay here a
couple of minutes,&rdquo; he told Cloud Dancer. &ldquo;If they make
an early break, give them a real scare. Otherwise, give us a few
minutes, then run for the canoe. We have to be out of here and
hopefully out of range before they get their wits.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded, and he and Silent Woman made for the canoe, then
waited nervously for Cloud Dancer. She finally arrived and jumped
in as he pushed off.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought you weren&rsquo;t going to come,&rdquo; he
said, relieved. &ldquo;I was about to come and rescue
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She laughed. &ldquo;The woman got really brave and decided that
no one was left. I sent an arrow so close to her that I believe
they will be standing as still as carvings many years from
now!&rdquo;</p>

<p>They sailed by the dig and then continued on as far south as
they dared. He decided that they would make camp on the east shore
that evening. That way, any search parties would have to cross the
river into lands held by other nations. However, he decided first
to make temporary camp, use the machine, then leave it there and
continue on as far as they could until dark.</p>

<p>He found a good landing where there was no sign of human
habitation and good cover, then proceeded to unpack and set up the
machine. Both women stared at it nervously. Neither had ever before
seen a true independently powered machine, and such things were
spoken of as having the darkest magic.</p>

<p>Most of the cartridges were of local languages or the languages
of some of the members of the dig, obviously chosen so they could
get to know each other better. There also were reference recordings
on the culture and the site itself and on uniform excavation
procedures, essential for that kind of tedious work. Hawks wanted
the two standards, labeled <span class="smallcaps">eng-x</span> and <span class="smallcaps">espan-x</span>. These would give a
basic overlay, causing the brain to associate words, terms, and
phrases it already knew with the proper English or Spanish terms.
It was not a cram course in the nuances of the languages; nobody
using them would lose an accent or know words and terms without
cross-references no matter what the size of the basic dictionary,
but it would allow for communication.</p>

<p>He picked English simply because it had the largest vocabulary
of all the known languages and as such was bound to have the best
matches for esoteric languages. He knew it worked well in
translation from Hyiakutt; he had no idea what language Silent
Woman had used.</p>

<p>Cloud Dancer looked suspiciously at the box. &ldquo;What does it
do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It will teach you the tongue I used with the students. A
tongue harsh to the ear but useful, since it is used so much. We
cannot use it to teach Silent Woman Hyiakutt, so we must use this
language so all three of us can communicate. It will also be useful
should we come up against anyone from Council or in the camp of the
Mud Runner and beyond. Please. You <em>must</em> do this, for me
and for her sake.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She was dubious. &ldquo;Can you not just run it on Silent Woman
and translate?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come on! It is a simple device. You saw what cooperation
it brought from the digger camp. Besides, look at Silent Woman. If
you do not do it, she certainly will not.&rdquo; He suddenly found
another cartridge on which was written in English, <span class="smallcaps">survival</span>.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This one, too, is useful,&rdquo; he told her. &ldquo;I
believe it teaches how to survive in the wilderness with nothing at
all. Emergency training. We may all need this. Please&mdash;sit. It
does not hurt. You feel a little sleepy, and then you know it
all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She looked nervously at Silent Woman, then at him, and sighed.
&ldquo;Very well. What do I do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just lie down here and get as comfortable as you can. I
put this thing on your head, so, so that the small points here
contact all around. There.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He inserted the cartridge, then turned the power on. There was
no real noise, but three small lights blinked on. Silent Woman
stared as if suddenly faced with a three-headed cat.</p>

<p>He punched the feed button, then sat back to wait the few
minutes this program took to run. Silent Woman just sat and stared,
suspicious but not really afraid.</p>

<p>When the machine clicked off, Cloud Dancer was asleep. Taking
advantage of that, Hawks withdrew <span class="smallcaps">eng-x</span> and inserted <span class="smallcaps">survival</span>. To
run it on all three did not present much of a risk, he decided, and
it might just be useful.</p>

<p>She was still asleep when <span class="smallcaps">survival</span> clicked off, and he roused
her. She opened her eyes, looked into his, smiled, got up, then
settled back down a meter or two away.</p>

<p>Silent Woman was more difficult to persuade, but she certainly
trusted them by now, and she had seen no terrible effects on Cloud
Dancer. She knew that the man would not do anything to harm his
woman, so she accepted the mantle with a little nervousness.</p>

<p><span class="smallcaps">Eng-x</span> ran its course, and he ran <span class="smallcaps">survival</span> once again. She, too,
fell asleep and had to be coaxed to move away. He certainly
intended to run <span class="smallcaps">survival</span> on himself. He needed it more than either
of the women.</p>

<p><span class="smallcaps">Survival</span> was everything he had hoped for and more&mdash;perhaps
too much more. He found himself able to know instantly if berries
were edible or poisonous, which water was safe and which was not,
how to find shelter or make it under almost any conditions, how to
keep from drowning, how to fashion weapons from the crudest
materials found on the forest floor, and how to use them. It was
also, however, a conditioning program that attacked inhibition. The
concept of eating raw frog or a huge accumulation of crushed
insects, for example, was no longer at all disgusting, and the
concept of modesty was thrown out entirely.</p>

<p>The program was intended to be taken in the field while
surrounded by friends and co-workers who would quickly reintroduce
reality and perspective. It then remained as a silent rider to the
consciousness, ready if needed but otherwise not evident. It was a
way of grafting the survival skills of the most primitive savage
onto the most civilized of personalities so that if they got into
trouble, they would have a chance to survive until they could be
rescued. It was not intended to be used by someone who already
needed it and was mostly in the uncivilized condition it
assumed.</p>

<p>He awoke first and looked over at the sleeping women. He knew
who he was and who they were; all his memories were intact, along
with his sense of purpose. He was acutely aware of danger, and he
wanted to act fast. His tattered loincloth caught on a bush as he
got up warily, and he reached down, snapped the thin rope in two,
and threw the garment away. It was an encumbrance. Clothing for
protection against the elements would have been practical; he could
not even conceive of why he&rsquo;d clung to that thing so long.
Better under these conditions to toughen the skin.</p>

<p>They had all been so tired that they&rsquo;d slept much longer
than they should have. The alarm had surely been raised by now. He
took the small mindprint machine and the cartridges down to the
river and threw them in. When both did not sink immediately, he
jumped in, and with a little help they filled and went down.</p>

<p>Cloud Dancer was awake when he returned, and she looked at him
approvingly. It was the nature of things now that he didn&rsquo;t
even notice that she, too, had shed her modesty cloths. He switched
to English to see if it all had worked. &ldquo;How do you
feel?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Different,&rdquo; she answered, her accent rather exotic
but understandable. &ldquo;Yet I cannot say how.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Awake, Silent Woman,&rdquo; he ordered curtly. &ldquo;We
have all slept too long, and we must be well away from here before
our enemies are upon us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>None of them could really comprehend the difference, but it was
major. They no longer felt loyalty or longing for tribe and nation
or even much kinship with it. Their tribe consisted only of the
three of them. The first priority was the survival of the tribe,
and then the individuals, no matter what the cost. The land was
full of enemies: only the tribe could be trusted. As the only male
of the tribe, Hawks was chief by default, and that was simply
accepted by them all.</p>

<p>Silent Woman was almost ecstatic to discover she could
understand their speech. It was a kind of wondrous magic that
reestablished her in the world.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hereafter we will use only this speech,&rdquo; he told
Cloud Dancer. &ldquo;It was always a tongue used to unite tribes;
let it serve to unite us. Silent Woman, I see that you understand
us now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded, mouth still open in wonder.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let us get far away from here, as far as we can. We do
not know if the transmission from the machine was picked up, but we
must assume that our enemies will be upon us at any
moment.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They went back down to the canoe, which, in their new mind-set,
seemed a real luxury to them. They crossed the river before the
light failed and continued south, slowly and very near shore,
looking for a proper camp. Then, working as a team, they left the
river, methodically covered or disguised all traces that anyone had
ever landed there, and carried the canoe well inland.</p>

<p>Academically and from old experience, Hawks understood what was
going on&mdash;what the program was designed to do and what it was
doing to them&mdash;but he did not fight it. It was the first thing
he&rsquo;d done by chance that had turned out right, and he was
going to use it. Neither woman, of course, could understand the
process and know how to fight it, anyway. For all the People, the
priorities were family, then tribe, then nation. By accident, the
survival program had reoriented those three categories to go with
different labels. Their loyalty was to him now, and he to
them&mdash;they were their own tribe. The threatening wilderness
and the treacherous yet mighty river were their friends and allies
against all other tribes and nations.</p>

<p>He got one of the bottles from the archaeologist&rsquo;s pack
and opened it. Primitive hunter-gatherers they might now be, but
they could neither hunt nor gather in this darkness and strange
wood. Food would wait until dawn.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There is energy in this fire drink, which is called
bourbon,&rdquo; he told them. &ldquo;We must use it for now,
although too much will cause dullness and throbbing heads the next
day. Drink in celebration, for now we are one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They drank, all coughing as it made its way down. &ldquo;It is
like a fire inside that warms,&rdquo; Cloud Dancer noted.
&ldquo;Now I see why it is called fire drink.&rdquo; But they
finished it off.</p>

<p>When the bottle was empty, he broke it on a stone and washed the
sharp point in the river. &ldquo;Until now I had a wife who stands
here. Now I have two wives, and they are proven warriors as well,
as brave as any man and as skilled.&rdquo; Silent Woman gave a
short gasp, and he realized that until now she&rsquo;d still
considered herself a slave&mdash;<em>his</em> slave. &ldquo;Tonight
we will mix our blood and bind ourselves forever to one
another.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Three cuts on three wrists were joined one after the other, then
all together. And then, full of togetherness and in the knowledge
that they were as safe as they could expect and could do nothing
more until morning, and being loosened with bourbon, the two
ministered to him and he to them on the forest floor, and they
slept entwined together.</p>

<br>
<p>&ldquo;You assholes just stood there and let him steal a damned
<em>mindprint</em> machine?&rdquo; Raven was aghast.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And twenty bottles of good bourbon,&rdquo; the
archaeologist chief added mournfully. &ldquo;It was only a portable
unit. Not programmable. I can&rsquo;t imagine what good it&rsquo;ll
do him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;ll make those bitches linguists,&rdquo; Raven
replied. &ldquo;Make it a lot easier moving south. You tell me
quick what the nonlanguage cartridges were. I want to see just who
and what we&rsquo;re dealing with now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The survival cartridge&rsquo;s importance did not escape the
Crow. &ldquo;They&rsquo;ve shown themselves to be right resourceful
up to now,&rdquo; he told Warlock. &ldquo;Now they can avoid all
human company and still fill their bellies. Probably do better with
the canoe, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have studied the charts,&rdquo; she responded.
&ldquo;If they get south of the Arkansas, they are going to be in a
region that is heavily populated and thickly traveled. He picked
this place because it is of Council; his actions here will not
affect his relations with the tribes. Down there he cannot escape
detection or at least notice. The tattooed woman stands out in any
situation. I cannot understand why he keeps her along. He must know
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, he&rsquo;ll keep her,&rdquo; the Crow assured
Warlock. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s incurred an obligation, and that&rsquo;s
an honorable man there. Still, the more people, the harder to use
sensors to find a camp. We can&rsquo;t hardly roust every camp we
find. Some of the tribes down there get a mite touchy and
wouldn&rsquo;t be at all impressed with Council. My feeling is that
we ought to pack it in, call in a skimmer, and wait for &rsquo;em
at Mud Runner&rsquo;s place.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Only as a last resort. If we were to spook him there, in
those swamps, we might get him killed or lose him forever. We
don&rsquo;t know where he thinks he&rsquo;s going, but he does, and
he is one single-minded man. Whatever he knows, he believes it is
worth any price.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I got to admit I don&rsquo;t like the odds down
there,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s a stranger there, true,
but so are we, and, pardon, we&rsquo;re just as conspicuous as he
is. Those swamps have defeated just about everybody who ever tried
to beat &rsquo;em rather than live with &rsquo;em. You got any
ideas?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just one. We have the advantage that we know he must
stick close to the river and probably on it. Time is pressing him.
The river is the only fast way to go. We know what they look like
and where they are going. We must stop chasing them and get ahead
of them. Let me see the current charts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They looked over the river course and the latest information.
Charts of the Mississippi were always out of date, but this one was
close. Warlock pointed a long finger at a spot well to the south.
&ldquo;There,&rdquo; she told him. &ldquo;It is narrow, and see how
it loops around. We could get two cracks at them there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded. &ldquo;Okay. As long as they don&rsquo;t portage
through the neck here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That is a chance I am willing to take. They have no
charts; the river is full and could flood down there at any time.
They can&rsquo;t portage across every oxbow or they would eat far
more time than sticking to the water. I think they will come by
there in a canoe in about three days. If we call in a skimmer, we
can be there in a few hours and have that much time to
prepare.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded. &ldquo;All right, I&rsquo;ll go with that. Better
than the swamps, anyway. If we miss &rsquo;em, though, then
it&rsquo;s Mud Runner or nothing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She smiled enigmatically. &ldquo;Then we will see if he lives up
to his legendary reputation as a ladies&rsquo; man.&rdquo;</p>
<br>
<p>Ordinarily the programs and data fed by a portable mindprinter
faded as time went on; only a Master System unit could lock in
permanent changes. However, it was also true that the more a skills
program was used, the more entrenched it became: If you lived it
and used it, it often integrated into the mind and achieved a level
of permanency. Hawks insisted that the two women literally
<em>think</em> in English and only in English.</p>

<p>Though a stronger imprint, the survival program was supposed to
be emergency medicine, something carried in the hope that it would
never be used. Under those conditions, it required regular
retreatment with the machine. Once in use, however, the effects
would last as long as necessary. Used too long, it could take on a
life of its own, stripping away the last vestiges of a complex and
refined culture like the Hyiakutt&rsquo;s and leaving only the
savage primitive. It was designed to do this to one born and raised
in the high-tech, pampered world of Council; the women came from
cultures that were no less complex or primitive than Council in
their own ways, but they were cultures much closer to the land.
There was less civilization to strip away. The authors of the
survival program simply assumed that any such problems could be
fixed once the person was located and rescued. An easy job for
Master System&mdash;but they could never meet up with a Master
System connect.</p>

<p>Hawks let it happen. Food, at least, was no problem now. What
they had been best at before they were expert at now. His
bowmanship was so perfect, it amazed him; Cloud Dancer could spear
something almost instinctively, and Silent Woman could bring down
birds in flight with stone or knife. The programming was geared to
using what you had, and from the standpoint of survival they had
quite a bit.</p>

<p>Minor ills, bruises, aches, and pains simply did not bother them
anymore. Fearing a major break or injury, Hawks urged quiet
caution.</p>

<p>He also began to entertain doubts about Mud Runner. What if the
Resident Agent didn&rsquo;t remember this wild man as his old
friend? What if he turned them in? What if, most probable, he just
couldn&rsquo;t help? He had to be made to help, even if it meant
telling him about the rings and their secret and thus passing on
the obligation. Hawks didn&rsquo;t really want to do that anymore;
now his thoughts ran in a different direction.</p>

<p>The fact was, he admitted to himself, that right now he was as
happy as he had ever been. He felt both free and loved. He began to
think about ways to fake his own death, to throw off pursuit.
Perhaps truly to found a new tribe and live this life, which was
satisfying. He was approaching middle age, not a good time to go
wild, but he was in excellent health. There were programs that
could erase a lifetime and alter forever a personality. Mud Runner
might well have these. For the first time he began to doubt his
mission.</p>

<p>Why had he run? Because insatiable curiosity had forced him to
read those papers and learn their deadly contents. He had fooled
himself into thinking that it was some sort of noble mission to
save humanity, but it was really just a bid to save his own neck.
Until now his alternatives had been either to remain with the
Hyiakutt or return to Council, but now there was another
alternative.</p>

<p>If the bottom-line idea was to save his life and the lives of
Cloud Dancer and Silent Woman, then which promised more? Passing on
the information and depending on some Lord of the Middle Dark to
save and protect them from Master System? Or, perhaps, logic. A
readout into a full mindprint machine would show that he had passed
his knowledge to no one. A second record showing that all his
knowledge had been erased, along with his past, and replaced with
that of a primitive hunter-gatherer might not absolutely take the
heat off, but Master System would be unlikely to send a Val or
expend much effort on him. Death was the sentence only because
Master System did not trust its own demon lords. But if no demon
lord were involved&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>Humanity could save itself. Someone had discovered the ancient
knowledge; others would over time. What he had here was worth a
thousand Master Systems.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide8.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide10.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

