<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Yendi</title>
<meta name="title" content="Yendi">
<meta name="series" content="Vlad Taltos">
<meta name="booknum" content="2">
<meta name="author" content="Brust, Steven">
<meta name="genre" content="Science Fiction/Fantasy">
<meta name="publisher" content="Ace Books">
<meta name="isbn" content="0-441-94460-4">
<meta name="version" content="v3.0">
<meta name="proof" content="Shoggoth">
<meta name="proof2" content="Nadie">
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="yendi.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide13.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide15.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">13</h2>

<h3 class="chapter">&ldquo;Well, what did you think I&rsquo;d do?
Kiss him?&rdquo;</h3>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Milord?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yes, Fentor?</em>&rdquo; I came more fully awake and
pulled Cawti closer to me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I&rsquo;ve located Countess Neorenti.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Good work, Fentor. I&rsquo;m pleased. What about the
Athyra?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Milord, are you certain about her name? Baroness
Tierella?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I think so. I could check on it a little more, I
suppose. Why? Can&rsquo;t find her?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I&rsquo;ve checked the records as thoroughly as I
can. Milord. There has never been anyone named
&lsquo;Tierella&rsquo; in the House of the Athyra,
&lsquo;Baroness&rsquo; or anything else.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sighed. Why does life have to be so Verra-be-damned
complicated?</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay, Fentor. I&rsquo;ll worry about it tomorrow. Get
some sleep.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Thank you, milord.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>The contact was broken. Cawti was awake, and snuggled closer to
me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What is it, Vladimir?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;More trouble,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s forget it
for now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mmmmmmm,&rdquo; she said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Loiosh.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yeah, boss?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You are provisionally forgiven.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yeah, I know.</em>&rdquo;</p>
<br>
<p>A few brief, happy hours later we were up and functional. Cawti
offered to buy me breakfast and I accepted. Before we left, she
wandered around the rooms, looking into nooks and crannies. She
commented on a cheap print of an expensive Kathana sketch of Dzur
Mountain, sneered good-naturedly at some imitation Eastern cut
glass, and would have continued all day if I hadn&rsquo;t finally
said, &ldquo;Let me know when you&rsquo;re through with the
inspection. I&rsquo;m getting hungry&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hm? Oh. Sorry.&rdquo; She gave the flat another look.
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s just that I suddenly feel as if this were
home.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I felt a lump in my throat as she took my arm and guided me to
the door.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where shall we eat? Vladimir?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? Oh. Uh, anywhere&rsquo;s fine. There&rsquo;s a
place just a couple of doors up that has clean silver and klava
that you don&rsquo;t need a spoon for.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sounds good.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Loiosh settled on my shoulder and we went down to the street. It
was about four hours after dawn, and a few things were just
beginning to get going, but there was little street traffic. We
went into Tsedik&rsquo;s and Cawti bought me two greasy sausages, a
pair of burned chicken eggs, warmed bread, and adequate klava to
wash it down with. She had the same.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;I just realized that I haven&rsquo;t cooked a
meal for you yet.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was wondering when you&rsquo;d get around to it.&rdquo;
She smiled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know I cook? Oh. Yeah.&rdquo; She continued eating. I
said, &ldquo;I really ought to do a job on your background, just to
make us even, you know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I told you most of it last night, Vladimir.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Doesn&rsquo;t count,&rdquo; I sniffed. &ldquo;Not the
same thing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Midway through the meal, I noted the time and decided to do some
business. &ldquo;Excuse me,&rdquo; I said to Cawti.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Morrolan&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</em> &rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yes, Vlad?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>The Athyra you gave me isn&rsquo;t.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I beg your pardon?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>She isn&rsquo;t an Athyra.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What is she, pray?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>As far as I know, she doesn&rsquo;t
exist.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a pause. &ldquo;<em>I shall look into this and inform
you of the results.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sighed, and the rest of the meal passed in silence. We kept it
short, because being in a public restaurant without bodyguards can
be dangerous. All it would take would be a waiter who knew what was
going on to get a message to Laris&rsquo;s people, and they could
send someone in to nail me. Cawti understood this, so she
didn&rsquo;t make any comment when I rushed a bit.</p>

<p>She understood it so well, in fact, that she stepped out of the
place ahead of me, just to make sure there was no one around.
Loiosh did the same thing.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Boss, stay back!</em>&rdquo; And,
&ldquo;Vladimir!&rdquo;</p>

<p>And, for the first time in my life, I froze in a crisis. Why?
Because all of my instincts and training told me to dive and get
away from the door, but my reason told me that Cawti was facing an
assassin.</p>

<p>I stood there like an idiot while Cawti rushed out, and then
there was someone in front of me, holding a wizard&rsquo;s staff.
He gestured, and then Spellbreaker was in my hand and swinging
toward him before I knew what I was doing. I felt a tingling in my
arm and knew that I&rsquo;d intercepted something. I saw the guy in
front of me curse, but before he could do anything else there was a
dagger sticking out of the side of his neck. Whatever Cawti was
doing, she apparently had time to keep an eye on the door. As I
scrambled through, drawing a stiletto, I managed a psionic
&ldquo;<em>Help!</em>&rdquo; to Kragar. Then I saw three more of
them. Sheesh!</p>

<p>One was yelling and trying to fight off Loiosh. Another was
dueling, sword to sword, with Cawti. The third spotted me as I
emerged and his hand flicked out. I dived toward him, rolling (this
is not easy with a sword at your hip), and whatever he threw
missed. I lashed out with both feet, but he danced back out of the
way. There was a knife in his left hand, set for throwing. I hoped
he&rsquo;d miss any vital spots.</p>

<p>Then the knife fell from his hand as a dagger blossomed from his
wrist. I took the opportunity to roll up and do unto him what
he&rsquo;d been about to do unto me. I considered his heart an
adequate vital spot; I didn&rsquo;t miss it.</p>

<p>A quick glance at Cawti showed me that she was doing all right
against her man, who apparently wasn&rsquo;t used to a swordsman
who presented only the side. I drew my rapier and took two steps
toward the one Loiosh was engaging. He gave Loiosh a last swipe,
turned to face me, raised his blade, and took the point of my
rapier in his left eye. I turned back to Cawti. She was cleaning
her weapon.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s move, troops,&rdquo; I said, as Loiosh
returned to my shoulder.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good idea. Can you teleport?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not when I&rsquo;m this excited. You?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How about walking, then. Back to my office.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cawti cleaned her blade, while I dropped mine where it was. Then
I led us back into Tsedik&rsquo;s and out the back door, and we
began a leisurely stroll back to the office. If we walked fast,
we&rsquo;d attract even more attention than we already had, but I
don&rsquo;t know if there is anything in the world more difficult
than trying to stroll while your heart is racing and the adrenaline
is pumping through your system. I was trembling like a teckla, and
the knowledge that this made me an even easier target didn&rsquo;t
help.</p>

<p>We had gone less than a block toward the office when four more
Jhereg showed up: Glowbug, N&rsquo;aal, Shoen, and Sticks.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good morning, gentlemen,&rdquo; I managed. They all
greeted me. I refrained from telling N&rsquo;aal that he looked
well, because he might have thought I was mocking him. He
didn&rsquo;t seem resentful, though.</p>

<p>We made it back to the office without incident. I contrived to
be alone when I finally lost my breakfast. It hadn&rsquo;t been
that good, anyway.</p>

<p>I&rsquo;ve known Dragaerans, and I mean known, not just heard
of, who can eat a meal, go out and have an incredibly close brush
with death, then come home and eat another meal. You might run into
one of these jokers an hour later and ask if anything interesting
has been happening, and he&rsquo;ll shrug and say, &ldquo;Not
really.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I don&rsquo;t know if I admire these types or just feel sorry
for them, but I&rsquo;m sure not like that. I have a variety of
reactions to almost dying and none of them involves being plussed.
It&rsquo;s especially bad when it comes as the result of an
assassination attempt, because such attempts are, by nature,
unexpected.</p>

<p>But my reactions, as I said, vary. Sometimes I become paranoid
for a few hours or days, sometimes I become aggressive and
belligerent. This time, I sat very still at my desk for a long
time. I was shaken and I was scared. The sight of those
four&mdash;<em>four&mdash;</em>kept running through my mind.</p>

<p>I was definitely going to have to do something about this Laris
fellow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Time to get moving, boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Eh?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You&rsquo;ve been sitting there for about two hours
now. That&rsquo;s enough.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>It can&rsquo;t have been that long.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Humph.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I noticed Cawti was in the room, waiting for me. &ldquo;How long
have you been there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;About two hours.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It can&rsquo;t&mdash;have you been talking to Loiosh?
Never mind.&rdquo; I took a couple of deep breaths.
&ldquo;Sorry,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not used to
this.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You should be by now,&rdquo; she remarked dryly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. I&rsquo;ve got that to console me. How many people
do you know who have survived&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, Vlad? What is it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sat there thinking for a very long time indeed. Then I asked
the question again, in a less rhetorical tone of voice. &ldquo;How
many people do you know who have survived even two assassination
attempts, let alone three?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She shook her head. &ldquo;There are damn few who survive the
first one. I don&rsquo;t think I&rsquo;ve ever heard of anyone
surviving two. As for three&mdash;it&rsquo;s quite an
accomplishment, Vladimir.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What do you mean?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Look Cawti, I&rsquo;m good, I know that. I&rsquo;m also
lucky. But I&rsquo;m not <em>that</em> good, and I&rsquo;m not
<em>that</em> lucky. What does that leave?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That the assassins were incompetent?&rdquo; she said,
raising an eyebrow.</p>

<p>I saw it and raised one. &ldquo;Are you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So what else does it leave?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I give up. What?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That the attempts weren&rsquo;t real.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What if Laris hasn&rsquo;t been trying to kill
me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s absurd.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I agree. But so is surviving three assassination
attempts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, yes, but&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s think about it, all right?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How can I think about it? Damn it, I did one of them
myself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know. All right, we&rsquo;ll start with you, then. Were
you actually hired to assassinate me, or were you hired to make it
look like you were trying to assassinate me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why on Dragaera&mdash;?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t evade the issue, please. Which was
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We were hired to assassinate you, damn it!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s admissible at Court, you know. Never
mind,&rdquo; I said quickly as she started flushing. &ldquo;Okay,
you say you were hired to assassinate me. Suppose you were given
the job of making it look good. How&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t take it. And get myself
killed?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Skip that for the moment. Just suppose. How would you
deal with the questions I&rsquo;ve been asking, if your job was to
make me think Laris wanted to kill me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&mdash;&rdquo; she stopped and looked puzzled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right. You&rsquo;d answer just as you&rsquo;ve been
answering.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Vladimir,&rdquo; she said slowly, &ldquo;do you actually
think that&rsquo;s the case?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;not really. But I have to
allow for the possibility. Don&rsquo;t I?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I guess,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;But where does that
leave you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It means that, for the moment, we can forget about you
and Norathar.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You still haven&rsquo;t said <em>why</em> he&rsquo;d want
to do this.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know. Skip that, too. Let&rsquo;s take the attempt
outside the office. I&rsquo;ve told you about it, right?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. I got out of that because I&rsquo;m quick and
accurate and, mostly, because Loiosh warned me in time, and took
care of one of them so that I was free to deal with the
other.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I was wondering if you&rsquo;d remember that,
boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Shut up, Loiosh.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now,&rdquo; I continued, &ldquo;how could Laris, and
therefore anyone he hired, <em>not</em> have known about
Loiosh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, of course he knew about him&mdash;that&rsquo;s why
he sent two assassins.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But they underestimated him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well&mdash;forgive me, Loiosh&mdash;but he didn&rsquo;t
do all that well against Norathar and me. Also, you reacted better
and more quickly than Laris could have expected. As I told you
before, Vladimir, you have a talent for making people underestimate
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe. Or maybe he gave the job to a pair of
incompetents, hoping they&rsquo;d bungle it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s absurd. He couldn&rsquo;t <em>tell</em> them
to bungle it, that would be suicide. And he couldn&rsquo;t
<em>know</em> they&rsquo;d fail. As I understand it, they almost
got you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And, maybe, even if they had, they wouldn&rsquo;t have
made it permanent. We can&rsquo;t question them. Which reminds me,
you could also have been told not to make it permanent. Were
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay, skip that. Maybe he figured I&rsquo;d survive, and,
if I didn&rsquo;t, that I&rsquo;d be revivified.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But you still haven&rsquo;t said why.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wait for it. Now, about today&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was wondering when you were going to get to that. Did
you see what the one threw at you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The sorcerer?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, the other one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. What was it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A pair of large throwing knives, with thin blades. And
they were perfectly placed for your head.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But I ducked.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, come on, Vlad. How could he know that you&rsquo;d
react that quickly?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Because he knows me&mdash;he&rsquo;s studied me.
Deathsgate, Cawti. That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;d do&mdash;what
I&rsquo;ve been trying to do as best I can.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have trouble&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay, just a minute then.&rdquo; I yelled past her.
&ldquo;Melestav! Get Kragar in here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay, boss.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cawti looked an inquiry at me, but I held up a finger as a
signal to wait. Kragar came into the room. He stopped, glanced at
Cawti, and looked at me.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This lady,&rdquo; I informed him, &ldquo;is the Dagger of
the Jhereg.&rdquo; As I said it, I looked a question at her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Might as well,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t
much matter anymore.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;She is also known as Cawti.
Cawti, this is Kragar, my lieutenant.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is that what I am?&rdquo; he mused. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve
wondered.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sit down.&rdquo; He sat. &ldquo;Okay, Kragar.
You&rsquo;re Laris.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m Laris. I&rsquo;m Laris? You just said I was
your lieutenant.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up. You&rsquo;re Laris. You get word that I&rsquo;m
sitting in a restaurant. What do you do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I send an assassin
over.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;&nbsp;&lsquo;An&rsquo; assassin? Not four?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Four? Why would I send four? Laris wants to kill you, not
give you Imperial Honors. With four assassins, you have three
eyewitnesses to the thing. He&rsquo;d get one good guy. There are
plenty of &lsquo;workers&rsquo; who wouldn&rsquo;t have any trouble
finalizing you if they knew you were sitting in a restaurant. If he
couldn&rsquo;t find someone good, he might go with two. But <em>not
four.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I nodded and looked at Cawti. &ldquo;The way you and Norathar
work keeps you out of contact with a large part of the Jhereg. But
Kragar&rsquo;s right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is that what happened, boss?&rdquo; Kragar asked, looking
puzzled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Later,&rdquo; I told him. &ldquo;Now, let&rsquo;s suppose
that you didn&rsquo;t have anyone around who could do it, or any
two. For some reason, anyway, you want to use four of them. What do
you tell them to do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He thought for a moment.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do I know where you&rsquo;re sitting, and what the layout
of the place is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Whoever told you I was there told you that stuff, too, or
else you get back in touch with him and ask.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. Then I tell them that stuff, and say, &lsquo;go in
there and do him.&rsquo; What more is there to say?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You wouldn&rsquo;t have them wait outside?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shook his head, looking more puzzled than ever. &ldquo;Why
give you a chance to be up and moving? If you&rsquo;re sitting
down&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Cawti suddenly. &ldquo;When I stepped
outside, they were just standing there, waiting. That&rsquo;s been
bothering me, but I didn&rsquo;t realize it until now. You&rsquo;re
right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I nodded. &ldquo;Which means that either Laris, or his
button-man, is a complete incompetent, or&mdash;that&rsquo;s all
for now, Kragar.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;good. Well, I hope I
helped.&rdquo; He shook his head and left.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Or,&rdquo; I continued to Cawti, &ldquo;he wasn&rsquo;t
really trying to kill me after all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If he was trying to fool you,&rdquo; she said,
&ldquo;couldn&rsquo;t he have done a better job of it? After all,
you figured it out. If you&rsquo;re going to use success or failure
to prove intention&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If we follow that reasoning, then I&rsquo;m
<em>supposed</em> to figure out that he&rsquo;s only bluffing,
right? Come on, lover. We aren&rsquo;t Yendi.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;But you still haven&rsquo;t
said <em>why</em> he&rsquo;d only want to bluff you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That,&rdquo; I admitted, &ldquo;is a tricky
one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She snorted.</p>

<p>I held my hand up. &ldquo;I only said it&rsquo;s
tricky&mdash;not that I&rsquo;m not trickier. The obvious reason
for him not to kill me is that he wants me alive.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Brilliant.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now, what reason could he have for wanting me
alive?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I know of at least one good reason, but I
don&rsquo;t think you&rsquo;re his type.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I blew her a kiss and hacked my way onward. &ldquo;Now, there
are several possible reasons why he might want me alive. If
any&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Name one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll come back to that. If any of them is true,
then he might be hoping to scare me into making a deal. We might be
hearing from him any time, asking me if I&rsquo;ll accept terms. If
I do hear from him, what I say will depend on if I can figure out
what he&rsquo;s after, so I know how <em>badly</em> he wants to
keep me alive. Got it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She shook her head. &ldquo;Are you <em>sure</em> you
aren&rsquo;t part Yendi? Never mind. Go on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. Now, as for reasons why he might want me alive, the
first thing that comes to mind is: he might not like something that
will happen when I die. Okay, now, what happens when I
die?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I kill him,&rdquo; said Cawti.</p>

<p>&ldquo;One possib&mdash;What did you say?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I kill him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I swallowed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; she said angrily, her nostrils flaring,
&ldquo;what did you think I&rsquo;d do? Kiss him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&mdash;Thank you. I didn&rsquo;t
realize&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Go on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Could he know that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She looked puzzled. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think so.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Which suddenly made me wonder about something.
&ldquo;<em>Loiosh, could someone have&mdash;?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>No, boss. Don&rsquo;t worry about it.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Are you sure? Love spells&mdash;</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I&rsquo;m sure, boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay. Thanks.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shook my head. &ldquo;Okay, what I was <em>going</em> to say
is, some of my friends&mdash;that is, my other friends&mdash;might
come down on him. Not Aliera&mdash;she&rsquo;s the Dragon Heir, and
the Dragon Council would have a lyorn if she started battling
Jhereg&mdash;but Morrolan might go after Laris, and maybe Sethra
would. Laris might be worried about that. But if so, why did he
start the war? Maybe he only found out about my friends after it
was too late to back out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s quite a chain of supposition,
Vladimir.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know, but this whole thing is a big chain of
supposition. Anyway, another possibility is that he started the war
knowing all this, but had some other reason for starting the war
anyway, and hopes to get something without having to kill
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What reason?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s the war about?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Territory.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right. Suppose that there is some particular area he
wants. Maybe there&rsquo;s something buried around here, something
important.&rdquo; She didn&rsquo;t look convinced. I continued.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You saw the front of this place? They staged a raid on
it. I didn&rsquo;t think anything of it at the time, but maybe my
office is sitting right on top of something they want.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, come on. This is so farfetched I can&rsquo;t believe
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right,&rdquo; I said, backing up a bit.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not saying that I&rsquo;ve hit dead center,
I&rsquo;m just trying to show you that there are
possibilities.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She grimaced. &ldquo;You aren&rsquo;t going to convince
me,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;This whole thing is based on assuming
that Norathar and I are part of the hoax. Maybe I can&rsquo;t prove
to you that we aren&rsquo;t, but I know we&rsquo;re not, so
I&rsquo;m not going to be convinced.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sighed. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t really believe you are,
either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, then, where does that leave your theory?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I thought about it for a while. Then,
&ldquo;<em>Kragar.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yeah, Vlad?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Remember that tavern keeper who tipped us
off?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Sure.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You said that he heard it being arranged&mdash;do you
know if he heard someone actually talking to the
assassins?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yes, he did. He said the button-man addressed them by
name. That&rsquo;s how I knew who we were up
against.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I see. When you went to see him, you said he was, how
did you put it? &lsquo;Surprised and caught off guard.&rsquo; Now,
can you take a guess about whether he was more afraid of you, or
afraid of being seen with you?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>That&rsquo;s pretty subtle, Vlad.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>So are you, Kragar. Try.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a pause. &ldquo;<em>My first reaction was that he was
afraid of me personally, but I don&rsquo;t
see&mdash;</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Thanks.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I turned back to Cawti. &ldquo;Would you mind telling me where
this thing was set up?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve admitted that you were hired to assassinate
me. All I want to know is where it was arranged.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She looked at me for a long moment. &ldquo;Why? What does this
have to do with&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If my suspicions are confirmed, I&rsquo;ll tell you. If
not, I&rsquo;ll tell you anyway. Now, where was it
arranged?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A restaurant in Laris&rsquo;s area. You know I
can&rsquo;t be more specific&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Which floor?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Which floor?&rdquo;</p>

<p>This earned me a quizzical look. &ldquo;The main
floor.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;And a restaurant, not a
tavern. Okay. And you didn&rsquo;t discuss it with him personally,
did you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Certainly not.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So you don&rsquo;t even know who the job came
from?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;not technically, I
suppose. But I assumed&mdash;&rdquo; She stopped, and her eyes grew
wide. &ldquo;Then who&mdash;?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Later,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll get to that. It
isn&rsquo;t what you think&mdash;I think. Give me a
moment.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Kragar.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yes, Vlad?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Our friend the tavern keeper&mdash;I would like him
to become dead.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>But boss, he&mdash;</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Shut up. Finalize him.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Whatever you say, Vlad.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>That&rsquo;s right. Whatever I say.</em>&rdquo; I
thought for a moment. &ldquo;<em>Have Shoen do it&mdash;he&rsquo;s
reliable.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>That&rsquo;s the trouble with not having any button-men: you
have to do all the dirty work yourself.</p>

<br>
<hr size="0">
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide13.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide15.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

