<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Bleak Seasons</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="bleak.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide92.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide94.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">91</h2>

<p>Otto and Hagop were back, after innumerable frustrating delays
on the last river leg, which should have been the easiest part of
their journey. They were concealed in the same Shadar waterfront
warehouse that I had used to hold the captives from the Grove of
Doom. One-Eye collected me from my quarters. He and I and my brown
shadow headed for the river. The Old Man beat us there. He could
drop everything when he really wanted. &ldquo;You all right,
Murgen?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m handling it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s spending too much time with Smoke,&rdquo;
One-Eye said. &ldquo;That don&rsquo;t sound healthy. Would you look
at these guys?&rdquo; He meant Otto and Hagop, though the others of
their expedition were confined to the warehouse, too, and were not
enthusiastic about being kept away from their families. It had been
almost three years.</p>

<p>Neither Otto nor Hagop looked much different. I told Hagop,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d almost given up on you guys.&rdquo; We shook
hands. I shook with Otto, too. &ldquo;I thought your luck finally
ran out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We came close, Murgen. We used up a
lot.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So,&rdquo; the Old Man said. &ldquo;What took so
long?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Actually, there ain&rsquo;t that much to
tell.&rdquo; Hagop looked at Croaker oddly, as though to make sure
he was talking to the real Old Man. Croaker was in his Shadar
disguise. &ldquo;We went, we did what we could, we came
back.&rdquo; Like a fourteen-thousand-mile round trip was routine?
In the Company we do not brag about the big stuff. &ldquo;We
didn&rsquo;t do a lot of sightseeing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>While Hagop talked Otto made a circuit of the doors and windows.
He asked, &ldquo;We need to worry about spies?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;This is Taglios,&rdquo; Croaker replied. By which he
meant that everyone is always watching everyone else, looking for
an edge.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We figured you guys would have then all squared
away by now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s a lot of squaring. Shadowlander spies, yeah,
they aren&rsquo;t a problem. Lady and Goblin and One-Eye took care
of them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;We still have the priesthoods.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And we&rsquo;ve had a little Deceiver trouble
lately.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Something in my face warned Hagop against pursuing that. Not
now. &ldquo;How goes the war, then?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Slowly,&rdquo; Croaker told him. &ldquo;We can talk about
that later. You do us any good up there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not much, to be honest.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Damn!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We did get a bunch of stuff for the Annals. Murgen, you
might want to work it in. It&rsquo;s stuff about what other people
were doing that will help make better sense of what we did. I
figure you could work it in between stuff that Croaker wrote. That
way them that comes after us can see both sides. Huhm?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe you ought to take over.&rdquo; Sourly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Learn me how to read and write. I&rsquo;m too old for
this other shit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Might do that,&rdquo; I glanced at Croaker. &ldquo;Long
as you don&rsquo;t edit me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The Old Man grinned.</p>

<p>Hagop chuckled. &ldquo;The gods forfend, Murgen. Not me. Hey. I
found out all about what happened after we left up there, too. You
wouldn&rsquo;t believe the excitement. The Limper came back one
more time. Don&rsquo;t worry. It&rsquo;s all settled now. The
empire is boring these days.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sounds like I wish I was back home.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker asked, &ldquo;Did you actually get into the
Tower?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We spent six months there. Mainly getting the runaround
at first.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We finally convinced them that Lady was getting her
powers back. They got cooperative then. Folks in the Tower these
days like not having her around.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Gee. That&rsquo;ll break her heart,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>Hagop
grinned. &ldquo;Yeah. They won&rsquo;t send us any help. Say they
don&rsquo;t want to make any new enemies. I think it&rsquo;s mostly
because they don&rsquo;t want Lady getting nostalgic for her good
old days and heading back north.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker said, &ldquo;We figured that. There&rsquo;s nothing in
this for them but keeping Lady away. What did you get?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They opened their records. Lent us translators. Even
opened graves when we asked.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They would have an interest in who was buried there
themselves.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Damned if they didn&rsquo;t. They had to change their
linens after we told them who all turned up alive down here. See,
they had a major scare when the Limper came back and damned near
took them apart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;That guy had a bigger boner for us than
Soulcatcher does.&rdquo; No way did we need to add the Limper to
our list of enemies. &ldquo;What about my turnip seeds?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hagop said, &ldquo;They made sure of Limper this time.
Absolutely sure. I got your seeds. Turnips and parsnips and even
some seed potatoes if they haven&rsquo;t spoiled.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker said, &ldquo;They would make sure of Limper.&rdquo; He
watched Otto prowl. Otto was restless, uncomfortable. &ldquo;So
they let you poke around and even gave you some help with it. What
did you learn?&rdquo; That had been the point. To see if they knew
anything way up north that we could use here.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not much. It don&rsquo;t seem likely that Longshadow was
ever one of the Taken.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I was confident of that. I was sure he would have betrayed
himself to Howler by now if they had been allies in the past.
&ldquo;Those potatoes. Did you get the little kind like
I&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hagop glowered at me, told the Old Man, &ldquo;There is the
remotest chance that he could be the Faceless Man, Moonbiter, or
Nightcrawler although everybody up there was sure those three
really did bite the dust. It was just that we couldn&rsquo;t come
up with any bodies.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How about one of the later Taken?&rdquo; Croaker
mused.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Five actually survived. Journey, Whisper, Blister,
Creeper and Learned. But Lady stripped all five of their powers. In
front of witnesses.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But Lady has been getting her powers back,&rdquo; I
argued.</p>

<p>&ldquo;A point. On the other hand, we know the exact day when
the Shadowmasters appeared. Even the hour, I gather. All the later
Taken were still in business up north. In fact, most of them
weren&rsquo;t even Taken yet.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I traded glances with the Old Man. He began pacing. He said,
&ldquo;When Soulcatcher held me captive she told me one of the
Shadowmasters who died at Dejagore wasn&rsquo;t ever one of the
Taken.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I added, &ldquo;Neither was Shadowspinner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hagop said, &ldquo;All they could tell us, really, was that they
didn&rsquo;t have a clue if Longshadow used to be one of the old
mob. The written record supported them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker kept pacing, narrowly avoided a collision with Otto, but
stayed well away from the cluster of unhappy Taglians awaiting his
blessing upon their desires to go home. After all this time could
they recognize him through his Shadar disguise? Probably.</p>

<p>I was sure he was thinking that this war with the Shadowmasters
was no ordinary struggle, that the stakes went far beyond simple
survival. He said, &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve taken three of the bastards
down. But Longshadow is the worst. He is the craziest. He&rsquo;s
working on Overlook day and
night&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Still?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Still. The poor idiot is a living testimonial to the fact
that everything takes longer and costs more. Even magic can&rsquo;t
get you around that. But he&rsquo;s a lot closer to being finished
than he was when you left. And if he does get done before we get
him we can bend over and kiss our butts goodbye. It&rsquo;ll be the
end of the world. His plan is to pull his hole in behind him and
loose the dogs of hell then come out later and collect up the
pieces of whatever is left.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I grumbled, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve heard this one before.&rdquo; I
never took it entirely serious despite the characters involved. But
it did sound like Croaker believed Longshadow was capable of doing
it. Maybe his adventures with Smoke had shown him something
I had missed so far.</p>

<p>So the end of the world was imminent, either at the hands of
Kina and her Deceivers or at those of Longshadow. Either way, only
the Black Company could prevent the tragedy.</p>

<p>Yeah. Sure.</p>

<p>I wanted to tell Croaker, old buddy, we&rsquo;re only the Black
Company. We&rsquo;re just a gang of misfits who can&rsquo;t make it
in life except as hired swords. Sure, we got ourselves into an
asskicking contest with some bizarro creeps now but there
ain&rsquo;t nobody going to care in a hundred years. We are
entangled in an affair of honor because of promises we made and
stuff like the Stranglers snatching your kid. But don&rsquo;t try
to sell anybody on saving the world.</p>

<p>I was scared the Old Man might be developing a case of the big
head, like Longshadow, Mogaba, the Howler, Kina, all the devils of
our time. One of the Annalist&rsquo;s duties is to remind the
Captain that he is not a demigod. But I was out of practice. Hell,
I could not deflate Uncle Doj when he got going.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I need an edge, Hagop,&rdquo; Croaker said. &ldquo;I need
it bad. Tell me you found something. Anything.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I
found Murgen&rsquo;s turnip seeds.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Damnit&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The best suggestion they had was that we might try to
trace the survivors of the Circle of Eighteen.&rdquo; Well. That
was interesting.</p>

<p>Croaker stopped pacing. He looked at me as though I might be
able to tell him something. I saw his focus fade. He was
remembering the Battle at Charm.</p>

<p>The Circle of Eighteen raised huge rebel armies to pull Lady
down. The culminating battle at Charm had been the bloodiest in
recorded history.</p>

<p>The Circle did not win.</p>

<p>Croaker said, &ldquo;We killed Harden and Raker. Lady turned
Whisper to Taken. That accounts for three.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A lot more just got lost when we whipped them,&rdquo; I
observed. My &ldquo;we&rdquo; drew smiles from Otto, Hagop and the
Old Man. I was maybe twelve at the time and had not yet even heard
of the Black Company.</p>

<p>Hagop said, &ldquo;We were too damned thorough back then, boss.
We went out looking for and flat could not find any Rebel veterans
to interrogate. We couldn&rsquo;t even find names for seven of the
Eighteen. But there were people at the Tower who were junior
officers then who claimed they had witnessed the deaths of all of
the Eighteen except one called Trinket, those who became Taken, and
one of the ones whose names we couldn&rsquo;t find out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Trinket.&rdquo; Croaker resumed pacing. He mused,
&ldquo;I remember Trinket. But just the name. We were at the Stair
of Tear. We got word that Trinket was surrounded. In the east. We
were busy with Harden. I don&rsquo;t know if I even mentioned it in
the Annals.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Ha! A chance to show off. &ldquo;You did. One sentence.
That&rsquo;s it, though. You said Whisper had taken Rust and
Trinket was surrounded.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Whisper. Yes. She&rsquo;d been Taken only a little
while.&rdquo; He had been there to help set up the Taking.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s one for Lady. She would know if there was
anything between those two.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Trinket was female,&rdquo; Hagop told us.
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s Longshadow?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker frowned.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;He never gets all the way naked but I&rsquo;m
pretty sure Longshadow is a he. Physically.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The Old Man offered me a daggers look. Damn! But the Taglians
were way off in a corner sulking. None of them caught my slip.
Hagop was not on the list of three, either, though. I hastened to
amend myself. &ldquo;But Smoke is the only one who ever saw him in
the flesh. And he ain&rsquo;t talking.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He still alive?&rdquo; Hagop asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Barely,&rdquo; Croaker said. &ldquo;We keep him alive.
Men have come back from comas before. That&rsquo;s it, Hagop? All
that time and travel. That&rsquo;s all you got me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s the way she goes sometimes, boss.&rdquo; He
grinned. &ldquo;Oh. I almost forgot. They did give me a coffin full
of papers and stuff that night have belonged to some of the people
who maybe could have turned into Longshadow if he was ever one of
the Eighteen. The stuff is all packaged and labeled in case some
wizard decides he wants to use them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker&rsquo;s face lit up like a bonfire. &ldquo;You
shithead.&rdquo; Grinning, he yelled, &ldquo;Otto, send them guys
home, why don&rsquo;t you? Bonharj, the rest of you, what the hell
are you doing hanging around here? Your people want to see
you.&rdquo; He told me, &ldquo;Guess we ought to ship that stuff
down to Lady. She&rsquo;ll know what to do with it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Otto hustled the Taglians out of the warehouse. They seemed
baffled by the Liberator&rsquo;s sudden generosity. Me too.</p>

<p>Hagop said, &ldquo;Now how about you guys telling what&rsquo;s
been happening?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;A whole lot. But nothing big and dramatic. We
keep nibbling them to death.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is Mogaba really the head honcho of Longshadow&rsquo;s
army?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Absolutely. He&rsquo;s one kickass sonofabitch,
too, only Longshadow won&rsquo;t let him run loose. He has to mess
with us secondhand, mostly, letting Blade do his dirty
work.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh? Blade? Like in Blade of Blade and Mather and
Swan?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh. Yeah.&rdquo; I glanced at the Old Man,
whose expression had gone stony. &ldquo;Yeah. Blade defected while
you were gone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s get back to the Palace, Murgen,&rdquo;
Croaker said. &ldquo;We have work to do.&rdquo;</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide92.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide94.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

