<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Yendi</title>
<meta name="title" content="Yendi">
<meta name="series" content="Vlad Taltos">
<meta name="booknum" content="2">
<meta name="author" content="Brust, Steven">
<meta name="genre" content="Science Fiction/Fantasy">
<meta name="publisher" content="Ace Books">
<meta name="isbn" content="0-441-94460-4">
<meta name="version" content="v3.0">
<meta name="proof" content="Shoggoth">
<meta name="proof2" content="Nadie">
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="yendi.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide7.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide9.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">7</h2>

<h3 class="chapter">&ldquo;I guess there&rsquo;s just a time for
doing dumb things.&rdquo;</h3>

<p>Lingering trace of a fading green light, but no eyes to see it
with. Memory like a well, awareness like a bucket&mdash;but who
pulls the rope? It occurred to me that &ldquo;me&rdquo; had
occurred. Existence without sensation, and the bucket hadn&rsquo;t
yet reached the water.</p>

<p>I knew what &ldquo;sight&rdquo; was when it came, and I found
myself staring into a pair of bright round things that I eventually
realized were &ldquo;eyes.&rdquo; They floated in gray fog and
seemed to see me. That must be significant. &ldquo;Brown&rdquo;
occurred to me, looking at the eyes, at about the same moment that
I saw a face fitting around them. Looking at the face, other terms
came to mind. &ldquo;Little girl&rdquo; was one. &ldquo;Cute&rdquo;
was another. And &ldquo;somber.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I wondered if she were human or Dragaeran, and realized that
more of me had returned.</p>

<p>She studied me. I wondered what she was seeing. Her mouth opened
and sound issued forth. I realized that I&rsquo;d been hearing the
sounds for quite some &ldquo;time&rdquo; and had not been aware of
it. The sounds were utterly dead, as if in a room that was
completely without echo.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uncle Vlad?&rdquo; she said again, but it registered this
time.</p>

<p>Two words. &ldquo;Uncle&rdquo; and &ldquo;Vlad.&rdquo; Both had
meaning. &ldquo;Vlad&rdquo; meant me, and I was delighted with the
discovery. &ldquo;Uncle&rdquo; had something to do with family, but
I wasn&rsquo;t sure exactly what. I thought about the words more,
deeming them important. As I did so, a wave of green light seemed
to come from all around me, bathing me for a moment, then
stopping.</p>

<p>I realized that this, too, had been going on for some time.</p>

<p>Sensations multiplied, and I felt that I had a body again. I
blinked, and found it delightful. I licked my lips, and that was
nice, too. I turned my attention back to the little girl, who was
still watching me closely. She seemed relieved now.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uncle Vlad?&rdquo; she said, like a litany.</p>

<p>Oh, that&rsquo;s right. &ldquo;Vlad.&rdquo; Me. I was dead. The
Easterner, the pain, <em>Loiosh.</em> But he&rsquo;d been alive, so
maybe&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uncle Vlad?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shook my head, and tried speaking. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know
you,&rdquo; I said, and heard that my voice was strong. She nodded
enthusiastically.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;But Mommy&rsquo;s awful
worried about you. Won&rsquo;t you please come back?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come back?&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t
understand.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mommy&rsquo;s been trying to find you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She sent you to look for me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She shook her head. &ldquo;She doesn&rsquo;t know I&rsquo;m
here. But she&rsquo;s <em>really</em> worried, Uncle Vlad. And
so&rsquo;s Uncle &rsquo;Rollan. Won&rsquo;t you <em>please</em>
come back?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Who could refuse a request like that? &ldquo;Where am I,
then?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She cocked her head to the side, looking puzzled. Her mouth
opened and closed a few times. Then she shook her head again.
&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know, but just come back, okay?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure, honey, but how?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Follow me,&rdquo; she said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay.&rdquo; She moved away a few feet, stopped, and
looked back. I found myself moving toward her, but I didn&rsquo;t
seem to be walking. I had no sense of how fast we were traveling,
or from where to where, but the grayness gradually darkened.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who are you?&rdquo; I asked her as we moved.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Devera,&rdquo; she said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m pleased to meet you, Devera.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She turned back to me and giggled, lighting up her face.
&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve met before, Uncle Vlad.&rdquo; That triggered
some more memories that I couldn&rsquo;t quite place,
but&mdash;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, Uncle Vlad?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, Devera?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;When we get back, don&rsquo;t mention to Mommy that you
saw me, okay?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. Why not? Aren&rsquo;t you supposed to be
here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, not exactly. You see, I haven&rsquo;t really been
born yet&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Wherever we were became completely black, and I felt suddenly
isolated. Then, once more, I was bathed in green light, and I
remember no more.</p>
<br>
<p>&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the dzur had scored a long scratch in
the jhereg&rsquo;s wing. The jhereg&rsquo;s jaws were going for the
dzur&rsquo;s neck, but the dzur nearly had its mouth around the
long, snakelike neck of the jhereg. The jhereg was of the normal
breed, not one of the nonpoisonous giant ones that dwelt above
Deathsgate Falls, yet it was one of the largest I had ever seen,
and should be able to give a good fight to&mdash;I blinked. The
scene hadn&rsquo;t changed. The orange-red sky was right, but I
realized that I was inside, on a bed, in fact. I was looking at a
painting that filled the ceiling above me. Someone&rsquo;s idea of
a joke, no doubt, to have me wake up to that sight. Could I view
the painting so that it appeared the jhereg was winning? I could
and did. It was a nice painting. I took a deep breath
and&mdash;<em>I was alive!</em></p>

<p>I turned my head and looked around the room. It was spacious, as
far as I was concerned&mdash;twenty-two and a half feet in the
direction of the bed, maybe fourteen the other way. No windows, but
a nice circulation of air. There was a fireplace centered in the
wall my feet pointed to, with a cozy little fire crackling away in
it and sending occasional sparks into the room. I twisted and saw
that a door was centered in the other wall. Black candles were
scattered throughout, providing most of the light. Yet there were
enough of them to give the room a bright appearance despite the
black walls.</p>

<p>Black, black, black. The color of sorcery. Lord Morrolan, Castle
Black. Yet, he wouldn&rsquo;t have used black candles unless he
were doing witchcraft, and I felt no traces of a spell. Nor would
he have a painting like that. So&mdash;Dzur Mountain, of
course.</p>

<p>I leaned back against the pillow (goose feathers, a luxury!) and
slowly set about moving my limbs. I made each one move, and each
finger and toe. They responded normally, but it took some effort. I
saw my cloak and clothing neatly folded on a stand three feet from
my head. I noticed with amusement that whoever had undressed me had
left Spellbreaker wrapped around my wrist, which was why I
hadn&rsquo;t immediately felt undressed.</p>

<p>I heaved myself to a sitting position. I became aware of a
general sense of weakness and pains throughout my body. I welcomed
them, as more signs of life, and swung my feet over the edge of the
bed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Going to say hello, boss?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I spun, and spotted Loiosh high on top of a tall dresser in the
far corner of the room. &ldquo;<em>Good morning, or whatever it is.
I&rsquo;m glad you&rsquo;re all right.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>He flew down and landed on my shoulder; licked my ear.
&ldquo;<em>That goes double for me, boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a chamber pot in one corner of the room, which I made
a much-needed use of. I dressed slowly, finding several of my more
obvious weapons neatly laid out beneath the cloak. Most of the
contents of the cloak itself hadn&rsquo;t been disturbed. Dressing
was painful. Enough said.</p>

<p>There was a soft clap at the door about the time I finished.
&ldquo;Come in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Aliera entered. &ldquo;Good morning, Vlad. How are you
feeling?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well enough, all things considered.&rdquo; Morrolan was
standing in the doorway behind her. We exchanged nods.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We would have been here sooner,&rdquo; he said,
&ldquo;but we had to visit another of our patients.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh? Who?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The &lsquo;lady&rsquo; who attacked you,&rdquo; said
Aliera.</p>

<p>&ldquo;She&rsquo;s alive?&rdquo; I swallowed involuntarily.
Being killed attempting to do a job is one of the very few things
that terminates the agreement between assassin and employer;
I&rsquo;d been hoping that they&rsquo;d both taken the trip.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Both of them are,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;We revivified
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see.&rdquo; That was different. They had the option of
resuming the agreement now, or not. I hoped they chose not to.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Which reminds me,&rdquo; said Morrolan. &ldquo;Vlad, I
apologize to you. The Easterner should not have been able to attack
you. I caused ruptures in several of her internal organs, which
should have sent her into shock at once. It did not occur to me to
continue watching her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I nodded. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s probably a witch,&rdquo; I said.
&ldquo;Witchcraft is good for that.&rdquo; He knew that, of course;
I was just needling him. &ldquo;But it ended up all right. How did
things go with the other one?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She is a very good fighter,&rdquo; said Aliera.
&ldquo;Remarkably good. We fought for more than a minute, and she
wounded me twice.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was nicely ironic that Aliera, who specialized in sorcery,
had dueled blade to blade with the one, while Morrolan, one of the
finest blades in the Empire, had used sorcery. But both were far,
far above the norm at either, so it really didn&rsquo;t matter.</p>

<p>I nodded. &ldquo;When was it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Aliera said, &ldquo;We performed the revivification as soon as
we had you back. You&rsquo;ve slept for two days.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know how to thank you&mdash;or was it
Sethra?&mdash;for revivifying me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It was I,&rdquo; said Aliera, &ldquo;and no thanks are
necessary.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How hard was it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She shook her head. &ldquo;The most difficult I&rsquo;ve ever
tried.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought we&rsquo;d lost you. It was quite a task to
repair your body, even before the revivification. Then I made four
tries before it worked. I slept for half a day
afterwards.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was only then that I remembered the dream I&rsquo;d had. I
started to mention it, but Aliera was continuing.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think you should be resting now. Try to stay on your
back for at least a day. Also, don&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>This reminded me of something else, so I interrupted.
&ldquo;Excuse me, Aliera, but&mdash;how did you and Morrolan happen
to be there?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Morrolan dragged me along. Ask
him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I turned and let my eyebrows do so.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Kragar,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;He explained that you
required immediate assistance, but he didn&rsquo;t know the form. I
happened to be with Aliera at the time. It seems we were nearly too
late. And, to repeat, I apologize for my sloppiness with the
Easterner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I brushed it aside. &ldquo;All right. I&rsquo;ll take your
advice now, Aliera. I think I&rsquo;d like to sleep.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you hungry?&rdquo; she asked.</p>

<p>I checked the relevant part of me, then nodded. &ldquo;A bit.
Perhaps when I wake up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. I&rsquo;ll speak to Sethra about it. Do you
feel any nausea, or would you be up to a full meal?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I feel fine,&rdquo; I told her. &ldquo;Just
tired.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I bowed to each of them and sat back on the bed as they
left.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You&rsquo;re no more tired than I am,
boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>True. But I</em> am <em>sore. Quiet for a
minute.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I reached out for contact with Kragar. It took a while, but
eventually he responded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Vlad! Welcome back!</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Thanks. It&rsquo;s nice to be alive
again.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I imagine. Aliera told me you&rsquo;d taken the trip,
but they&rsquo;d brought you back. I was beginning to worry,
though. It&rsquo;s been three days.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I know. How are Varg and Glowbug?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Glowbug is okay; the dagger caught his kidney, but we
got to him in time.</em>&rdquo; He paused. &ldquo;<em>Varg
didn&rsquo;t make it. The revivification failed.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I cursed, then asked, &ldquo;<em>How&rsquo;s our
income?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>A trickle.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Hmph. How about standing funds?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Around nine thousand left.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay. Thirty-five hundred each for anyone who brings
me Wyrn and Miraf&rsquo;n.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Boss, they&rsquo;re going to be protected,
you&rsquo;ll never&mdash;</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Fine. Then I won&rsquo;t have to pay anything. But
put the word out.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Mental shrug. &ldquo;<em>Okay,</em>&rdquo; he said.
&ldquo;<em>Anything else?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yes. Tighten up. I mean, everybody. No action until
I&rsquo;m back, but I don&rsquo;t want</em> anybody <em>out
alone,</em> ever. <em>Got that?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Got it.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>And blow another thousand on bumping up the
protection on every place we have. I don&rsquo;t want any more
surprises.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Check. Anything else?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yeah. Thanks.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You&rsquo;re welcome.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What tipped you off?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I got a message from one of those people we&rsquo;ve
been trying to cultivate as friends. It seems that the thing was
arranged in an upstairs room of his tavern, and he decided to help
us out.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Well I&rsquo;ll be&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Give him
two hundred.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I gave him one-fifty already.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Good. Kragar&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;all the
Phoenix Guards disappeared, went away, just about the time I left
the office. I can&rsquo;t believe that&rsquo;s a coincidence, and I
can&rsquo;t believe they have the Empress helping them out&mdash;or
the commander of the Phoenix Guards, for that matter. Do you know
anything about it?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Our contact said that he heard it would be
&lsquo;taken care of.&rsquo;</em>&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Hmmmm. I see. Check up on it, all
right?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I&rsquo;ll try.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Good. And do you know who those two were? The ones
who got me? They were damn good. They did half the job anyway, even
after Morrolan and Aliera showed up.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was a pause.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Boss? You don&rsquo;t know?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What are you talking about? How could I
know?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Think about it, boss. Two assassins. Female. One
Dragaeran, one Easterner. One with a greatsword, one with daggers.
How many teams like that are there?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Oh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I&mdash;uh, I&rsquo;ll be talking to you later,
Kragar.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Sure, Vlad.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>And the contact was broken.</p>

<p>When you talk about assassins, good ones, the name Mario
Greymist has a place by itself. He is the best there is, ever has
been, or, as far as I&rsquo;m concerned, ever could be. But after
Mario, there are several names that come to mind, among those few
who know such things: the ones who are good, dependable, command
high rates, and are feared by anyone thinking of making a powerful
enemy within the organization.</p>

<p>Most assassins work alone. I mean, murder is a very private
thing. But there are a few teams. One of these teams is on the list
I mentioned above. I&rsquo;d heard of them, and their names have
been linked to a score of jobs in the last five years. None of
these tales is certain, and most are probably wrong, but
still&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;This team involved a Dragaeran,
using a greatsword with all the skill of a Dragonlord, and an
Easterner using a dagger. Both were women&mdash;and the Right Hand
of the Jhereg has very few women. (There&rsquo;s Kiera the Thief,
and maybe a few others, but they are a rarity.) This pair of
assassins called themselves &ldquo;The Sword of the Jhereg&rdquo;
and &ldquo;The Dagger of the Jhereg,&rdquo; and no one knew
anything about where they&rsquo;d come from. It was very hard to
get hold of them&mdash;usually, if you wanted them, you just put
the word out on the streets and hoped they&rsquo;d hear and be
interested.</p>

<p>It should be pointed out that the most I&rsquo;ve ever been
offered for an assassination is six thousand gold, and these two
won&rsquo;t even talk to you for less than eight or nine. It had
never occurred to me to send them after Laris, because they&rsquo;d
have wanted at least twenty thousand, and there was no way I could
raise that kind of cash without committing everything to the one
shot&mdash;a stupid thing to do since anyone can fail. (I
haven&rsquo;t yet, but I&rsquo;ve been lucky.)</p>

<p>I wondered how much I was worth, and where Laris had found the
funds. I discovered that I was shaking, which was stupid, since the
threat was over. Unless they decided to complete the job. I
continued shaking.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>You okay, boss?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Not really. Let&rsquo;s take a walk.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I stepped out of the room into the cold, black stone halls of
Dzur Mountain. I knew where I was at once. To my right would be the
library, where I&rsquo;d first met Sethra. To my left would be more
bedrooms. On impulse, I turned to the left. There were doors on
either side of the hall. The hall continued past them. I stopped.
Could the assassins be in one of these? Or one in each? I decided
to keep walking; there was nothing to be gained by seeing them. I
mean, as an assassin, I never had anything to say to my targets; as
a target, what was I going to say to my assassins? Plead for my
life? Sure. No, there was no point in&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I
discovered that I hadn&rsquo;t moved. I sighed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I guess there&rsquo;s just a time for doing dumb
things, Loiosh.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>I opened the door as quietly as I could and looked inside.</p>

<p>She was awake and looking at me. Her face was calm, her eyes
expressionless. No question about it, she was as human as I was.
Her eyes moved down to my right hand, which I discovered was
gripping a dagger at my belt. She didn&rsquo;t seem to be
frightened.</p>

<p>She was sitting up, a blue nightgown showing her pale skin in
the dim light of a single set of candles. Her hair was dark brown,
almost black. Her eyes were darker yet, a vibrant contrast with the
shade of her skin. The nightgown was intended to be modest, but it
was also intended for a Dragaeran, so it fell rather low on her.
She showed no embarrassment.</p>

<p>Her eyes traveled from the dagger to my face. We studied each
other for a time; then I forced my hand to relax, and release its
grip on the weapon.</p>

<p>Dammit! I was the one who was armed, <em>she</em> was the one
who was helpless. There was no reason for <em>me</em> to be afraid
of <em>her.</em> I managed to speak.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Have you a name?&rdquo; My voice sounded dry, almost
cracked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; she said, in a soft contralto.</p>

<p>I waited for her to continue. When she showed no signs of doing
so, I said, &ldquo;Will you tell me what it is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I nodded. The Dagger of the Jhereg wished to be called the
Dagger of the Jhereg. So be it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How did your partner evade Loiosh?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;She didn&rsquo;t. I gave her some herbs so she
wouldn&rsquo;t be affected by the poison, and she just ignored
him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I waited for Loiosh to make some remark about that; when he
didn&rsquo;t, I said, &ldquo;How much was my head worth to
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;d be flattered.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She continued looking at me. The candles flickered and did
things to her hair, and face, and neck, and the shadows of her
breasts against the back wall. I swallowed.</p>

<p>Then she said, &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve returned the
payment.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I felt a sense of relief, as if the Imperial Executioner had
been handed a stay just as he raised his staff. I felt it show on
my face and cursed my weakness.</p>

<p>Her eyes came to rest on Loiosh, then she held out her hand. He
hesitated and twitched nervously on my shoulders.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Boss&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</em> &rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Up to you, chum.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>He flew over to her and wrapped his talons around her wrist. She
scratched under his chin, going with the scales.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The jhereg is beautiful,&rdquo; she said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;His name is Loiosh.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, of course. You must have found out quite a bit about
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not enough, apparently. How did Morrolan and Aliera find
out, by the way?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sorry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She nodded. &ldquo;You&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;have a talent
for making people underestimate you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thank you very much.&rdquo; I walked into the room and
let the door swing shut behind me. With a careful effort to appear
casual, I sat at the edge of the bed. &ldquo;So, what
now?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She shrugged, which was worth coming in just to see. &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t know. Morrolan and Aliera tried to mind-probe me
before. It didn&rsquo;t work, so I don&rsquo;t know what
they&rsquo;ll try next. Do you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I was startled. &ldquo;What were they trying to find
out?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who hired us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I laughed. &ldquo;They could have just asked me. Don&rsquo;t
worry. They aren&rsquo;t bad types, for Dragonlords.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She smiled back at me, ironically. &ldquo;And you&rsquo;ll
protect me, right?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure. Why not? You&rsquo;ve given the money back, even
though you didn&rsquo;t have to, which is proof that you
aren&rsquo;t coming after me again. And we Easterners ought to
stick together, don&rsquo;t you think?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She caught the point of that, and dropped her eyes.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve never &lsquo;worked&rsquo; on a human before,
Vlad. I almost didn&rsquo;t take it,
but&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; She shrugged again. I
wondered how I could make her keep doing that.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m glad Aliera is good at revivification,&rdquo; I
said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I suppose so.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;For both our sakes,&rdquo; I added, because I meant it.
She looked at me carefully. There was a moment when time did
strange things. If I had thrown my stones right, I could have
kissed her then. So I did. Loiosh flew off her arm as our lips met,
lightly. It was hardly an intense kiss, but I discovered that
I&rsquo;d closed my eyes. Odd.</p>

<p>She continued looking at me, as if she could read something in
my face. Then she said, very deliberately, &ldquo;My name is
Cawti.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I nodded, and our mouths met again. Her arms went around my
neck. When we came up for air, I reached up and slid the nightgown
over her shoulders and down to her hips. She pulled her arms free
and began working at the clasp of my cloak. I decided that this was
insane. She would never have a better chance of getting one of my
daggers and finishing me. <em>Verra!</em> I thought to myself,
<em>I think I&rsquo;ve lost it.</em></p>

<p>My cloak dropped to the floor, and she helped me take off my
jerkin. I paused to remove my boots and stockings, then we fell
back together, and the sensation of her small, strong body against
mine, her breasts against my chest and her breathing in my ear, my
hand on the small of her back, her hand behind my
neck&mdash;I&rsquo;d never felt anything like it before, and I
wanted to just stay like that, forever, and not take it any
further.</p>

<p>My body, however, had its own set of rules, and let me know of
them. I began stroking her lower spine. She pulled my head away and
kissed me; this time we both meant business. I tasted her tongue,
and that was nice too. I heard myself making small moaning sounds
as my lips traveled down to her throat, then to the valley between
her breasts. I kissed each one, carefully, and went back to her
lips. She started fumbling for the catch to my breeches, but I
interfered by finding her buttocks with my right hand and crushing
her to me again.</p>

<p>We drew back and looked at each other once more. Then we paused
long enough to send Loiosh out of the room, because love, like
murder, shouldn&rsquo;t have witnesses.</p>

<br>
<hr size="0">
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide7.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide9.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

