<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide47.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide49.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">46</h2>

<p>I raced to find Croaker and Soulcatcher. Smoke was so far off
balance I actually got close to Lady&rsquo;s mad sister. She was
dancing around in a rage, talking to herself in different voices,
cursing Lady for having too much initiative, cursing her crows for
not getting to the battle and back with information fast enough to
suit her. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not time!&rdquo; she raged.
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s no conjunction yet! This can&rsquo;t happen
now!&rdquo;</p>

<p>I hustled off to find Croaker when Smoke began to strain away
from the woman. We soared upward, terrifying the crows, leaving a
discernible wake through their swarm. I hoped Soulcatcher was not
alert enough to catch it.</p>

<p>There had been times when she had seemed aware of my presence.
Though that had been on occasions when I was loose from my own
place in time, mostly.</p>

<p>Croaker was easy to spot. He was headed for camp at a gallop,
trailing a comet tail of crows. His giant black stallion seemed
almost to fly.</p>

<p>I rose higher still, to see if there were developments elsewhere
in need of noting.</p>

<p>Smoke seemed to enjoy rising up where the eagles soar. We went
higher than ever before, until the surface of the earth was so far
below that I could not make out such trivial details as men and
animals, till only the most vast works of man stood out from the
snowy background. The Dandha Presh gleamed like a row of teeth in
the north. In the west a pile of dark clouds promised more hard
weather for later. In the south the plain of grey stone sparkled as
though strewn with newly minted coins. The plain as a whole faded
away into grey nothingness, yet at the extremity of vision
something loomed within the grey.</p>

<p>All Overlook&rsquo;s north face seemed to be on fire.</p>

<p>I swooped down there to discover that Howler and Longshadow had
gotten together and launched a counterattack against the troops
holding the top of the wall. Then Lady had come to the aid of her
people. Every man who could work a bamboo pole was doing so, often
apparently not aiming at anything.</p>

<p>Amidst all the other lights the air shimmered with fragments of
something that recalled the northern lights we had seen ages ago
when the Company was way up at the Barrowland. None of these shards
was bigger than a platter. They flew around like a swarm of gnats.
The air was filled with a sound like sharp steel in rapid motion.
The shimmers slashed everything but Longshadow&rsquo;s most densely
spell-protected stone.</p>

<p>Lady was up near the edge of the emergency housing that had been
erected for Shadowlander refugees. Her usual gang of worshippers
surrounded her, ready to repel any physical attack. She was doing
whatever it was that was throwing those blades of light around up
there, keeping the defenders under cover and Howler and Longshadow
too busy to trouble her or any of her soldiers.</p>

<p>The blades of light did not appear to be under Lady&rsquo;s
direct command but orbited a point she did control most of the
time.</p>

<p>A tower collapsed into the interior of the fortress. A pillar of
dust, reflecting colorfully, rose to be carried away by the wind
bringing the storm from the west.</p>

<p>The outside of the fortress, once so ivory, was a mess of
stains. I figured the housekeeping staff would be real put out.</p>

<p>The flying black speck that was the Old Man was almost back to
his headquarters. I knew he would want to see me first. Reluctantly
I left the great show for flesh.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What the hell is going on?&rdquo; One-Eye demanded as I
let myself down from the wagon. The show must have impressed him
because he was all business. He had food and drink waiting.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Croaker&rsquo;s almost here. I&rsquo;ll tell you
both.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Right on cue the Old Man popped over the nearest rise and
hurtled toward us. His mount was still in motion when he left his
saddle. He grunted as his boots hit the ground. &ldquo;Tell
me.&rdquo; He understood that we were waiting.</p>

<p>I told him everything I knew. Including the fact that he was
sneaking around with his wife&rsquo;s sister when the shitstorm
hit. He stared over my shoulder toward Overlook the whole time. His
expression was cold, stony. I offered the observation that Lady had
in no way exceeded her authority within the general orders of the
organization. That cold look turned my way.</p>

<p>I had no trouble meeting it. A couple of brushes with Kina can
do wonders for the trivial fears of the world.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You got something on your mind, Murgen?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t tell anybody what&rsquo;s going on, you
got to accept it when they go ahead and get on with the
job.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I thought smoke was going to roll out of his ears.</p>

<p>A skinny, mangy mongrel raced past and on the dead run clamped
jaws on a startled crow. He got a wing.</p>

<p>All the crows in the world descended on him before he could
enjoy his dinner.</p>

<p>&ldquo;A parable,&rdquo; One-Eye said. &ldquo;Observe! Black
crows. Black dog. The eternal struggle.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Black philosopher,&rdquo; Croaker grumbled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Black Company.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker said, &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go have a chat with my esteemed
paramour. Where is she, Murgen?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I told him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go.&rdquo; But he had to stop and pick up his
Widowmaker costume. Which allowed me time to borrow Thai
Dei&rsquo;s grey mare and get a head start. Croaker frowned but did
not ask when he caught up. Thai Dei insisted on coming along even
though he had to jog now.</p>

<p>He did not keep up.</p>

<p>Neither did I, of course.</p>

<p>If Lady and the Old Man indulged in a head-butting contest it
was over before I got there. Maybe I could take Smoke back to look
their meeting over. When I got there they were looking up at the
tall white wall and deciding how best to exploit the situation.</p>

<p>Lady was saying, &ldquo;I fear our supply of bamboo poles is
growing too small. It&rsquo;s certain that Longshadow will send
shadows against us at least once.&rdquo; She spoke Taglian. She did
not care who heard what she said. And plenty of ears were nearby,
including Blade, Willow Swan and the Nar generals Ochiba
and Sindawe, none of whom enjoyed my complete trust. Crows were, as
always, plentiful, too.</p>

<p>They were turning the ruins of Kiaulune into a major rookery.
Good eating there, I suppose, with the cold weather preserving the
corpses of the Shadowmaster&rsquo;s subjects.</p>

<p>Almost everyone threw rocks at the birds. They had become adept
at dodging. I suspected resignation would set in eventually and the
only time we would enjoy any privacy would be when Lady used one of
the spells she had developed for frightening the birds away.</p>

<p>A ripple of astonished disturbance passed through the circling
birds. No one else noticed. But I was alert for it because I had
been wondering if One-Eye was going to watch.</p>

<p>If anyone else figured this out&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;You
can do nothing in this world without leaving some mark, somehow. If
someone else knows what sort of trace you will leave&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>One of the crystal tower tops received so many fireballs that it
began to ring. The sound started as a soft hum and rapidly swelled
to a raging shriek. The tower top exploded in a cloud of smoke and
dust and spinning shards that melted holes in the snow and earth
wherever they fell. The event so startled everyone that it
distracted even Lady for a moment.</p>

<p>In that brief moment Longshadow counterattacked.</p>

<p>The boots of an invisible giant a thousand feet tall began
stomping and kicking the men atop Overlook&rsquo;s wall and those
trying to join them. In the moments it took Lady to overcome her
surprise and respond, every ladder got stripped away and the bands
holding the secured section of wall got scattered. Many fell to
their deaths.</p>

<p>Lady stopped the stomping but all efforts to reestablish a
ladder link to the men up top failed. Longshadow was fully into the
game.</p>

<p>Croaker stayed and watched for the rest of the day. I stayed
with him. Nothing much happened.</p>

<p>We walked back. Croaker said, &ldquo;Overall, that may have been
a net gain.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We still have people inside. If we can preserve
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We shall make every effort.&rdquo;</p>

<p>His mind was racing. Something had happened outside whatever
playscript he had written and he was trying to incorporate it as a
positive. He had no attention left over for little questions like
why I was using Thai Dei&rsquo;s horse while my brother-in-law was
hoofing it.</p>

<p>Which reminded me that I needed to check up on Sleepy. The
weather and the war had not gone the way I had expected here so his
life might not have been comfortable lately, either.</p>

<p>The wind rose dramatically during our walk. Pellets of ice came
as precursors of the storm. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got a feeling this is
going to be a bad one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Croaker grunted. &ldquo;Pity she didn&rsquo;t pull it off this
morning. We could be inside and warm.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;At least it ought to be about the last big one of the
winter.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That reminds me. How are we doing finding seed
grain?&rdquo;</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide47.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide49.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

