<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Silver Spike</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="spike.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide61.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide63.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">LXI</h2>

<p>After I figured out I was probably safer in the militia than
hanging around Darling I settled down and made myself to home. It
was kind of comfortable back in the old rut. Didn&rsquo;t have to
do no thinking or worrying.</p>

<p>But I guess I spent too much time running loose. It got old
fast. First time I felt like going out for a beer and
couldn&rsquo;t I knew I was getting out and staying there.</p>

<p>That idea got a boost when the sergeant had us our first weapons
practice. We stood around in the mud while the breeze gnawed on us.
Half the guys weren&rsquo;t dressed for it. But that wasn&rsquo;t
what got me. That was what the sergeant told us.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Listen up, you men. We just got word trouble gets here
tomorrow. All the learning you&rsquo;re going to get you&rsquo;re
going to get today. You want a half-ass chance of getting through
alive, pay attention. The only weapon we got to give you is the
spear. So that&rsquo;s all we&rsquo;re going to work with.&rdquo;
He indicated soldiers who had their arms wrapped around bundles of
spears. The spearheads were inside wooden covers so nobody would
get stabbed or cut. &ldquo;These two new guys are experts. They was
loaned to us by the Nightstalkers. They&rsquo;re going to run us
through the drills. You don&rsquo;t do what they tell you, you get
your butt kicked same as if you don&rsquo;t do what I tell
you.&rdquo; He gestured at one of the Nightstalkers.</p>

<p>They all learn their piece at the same place, I think.</p>

<p>The Nightstalker stripped the cover off the head of a spear.
&ldquo;This is a spear.&rdquo; He was going to blind us with
illuminating information. But I&rsquo;d played with these toys
lots. Those others guys hadn&rsquo;t. Maybe some of them needed to
be told. You got to crawl before you walk and walk before you run.
Except my littlest brother Radish. The way I remember, he hit the
ground running.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This edge is sharp enough to shave with. This point will
go through armor if you put some muscle behind it. The spear is a
very versatile weapon. You can stab with it, jab with it, cut with
it, slash with it. You can use it to hold your tent up or use it
for a fishing pole. But one thing you can&rsquo;t never do with it
is throw it. It ain&rsquo;t a javelin. You throw it and you
don&rsquo;t have shit anymore. You&rsquo;re meat for the first guy
that wants you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>So. Rule One.</p>

<p>And so forth. While we froze our butts off.</p>

<p>Came to the part where they start sparring, going through the
basic moves. The Nightstalkers called for seven guys to pair off
with our regular instructors. I was proud. The recruits had
listened to me. Nobody volunteered.</p>

<p>The Nightstalkers grabbed seven guys and started them through
the moves. The sergeant took four pairs and his buddy took
three.</p>

<p>Just like I figured, when they got moving faster the soldier
named Caddy made him a chance to &ldquo;accidentally&rdquo; hurt
the guy he was sparring with.</p>

<p>The Nightstalker broke it up. &ldquo;Seven more. Come
on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>This one hothead named Ken something was all set to go after
Caddy and get his head busted good. I told a couple guys,
&ldquo;Hang on to him. Cool him down. And don&rsquo;t let him pair
off with Caddy.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I went up and took the spear from the guy Caddy had decked. His
nose was bloody.</p>

<p>Clumsy as Caddy had looked, I figured I could stumble around and
get in a &ldquo;lucky&rdquo; whack that would slow him down for the
rest of the guys that would have to face him. I was rusty but I
used to be pretty good with the standard infantry spear. Always was
about my best weapon.</p>

<p>The body will betray. I went into a stance without thinking.
Caddy looked puzzled. I figured he was mean because everything
puzzled him.</p>

<p>The Nightstalker came and moved my hands and feet and butt
around into what he considered a more acceptable stance. When he
had everybody set he started us through the moves. It got hard to
stay looking inept as they came faster. The muscles and bones
remembered and wanted to do things right.</p>

<p>Caddy decided to break my nose. When he went for it I stumbled
out of the way and accidentally whacked him in the shin. He barked.
Somebody in ranks said, &ldquo;Yeah!&rdquo; Somebody else
laughed.</p>

<p>That did it for Caddy. He came after me.</p>

<p>I stumbled around and tried to make like a scared kid trying to
defend himself. Had we been playing for keeps I could have killed
him over and over.</p>

<p>Then he gave me an opening a blind man couldn&rsquo;t miss. I
tore up his left ear, tripped him, sent him sliding through the
mud. I backed off trying to look scared and unable to believe what
I&rsquo;d done.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s enough!&rdquo; our sergeant snapped.
&ldquo;Give me the spear and get back in ranks, Green. Caddy! Go
get cleaned up. Get that ear fixed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I surrendered the spear and moved. The guys were all working
hard not to grin.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Green!&rdquo; It was the Nightstalker sergeant.
&ldquo;Come here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I went back. I stood at attention. He looked me in the eye,
hard. Then he touched the cut on my cheek. He backed off, took a
spear from one of the grays, removed the headguard, threw it aside.
&ldquo;Give him a spear.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It got real quiet. Everybody wondered what the hell, except my
sergeant. I thought I knew. Queen&rsquo;s Bridge. But it
didn&rsquo;t make no sense. It was over a long time ago. My
sergeant tried to argue. The Nightstalker just growled, &ldquo;Give
him a spear.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I gave him my best imitation Raven look and tried not to shake
too much as I took the guard off the spear somebody handed me. I
didn&rsquo;t throw the guard away. That bastard was serious. I
wasn&rsquo;t going to play around and I wasn&rsquo;t going to give
up a trick.</p>

<p>He did some fancy moves to loosen up.</p>

<p>My mouth felt awfully dry.</p>

<p>When he turned on me I shifted to a left-handed stance, which
guys always have trouble with for a couple of minutes. I kept the
guard in my right hand.</p>

<p>He tested me with a thrust toward my eyes. I brushed it away,
gently, just manipulating the spear with my left hand. I shot my
right forward, cracked his knuckles with the guard. Cold as it was,
that had to hurt like hell. In the second the pain distracted him I
brought my spear around, still one-handed, in a wild roundhouse
edge cut at his throat. He threw himself backward to avoid it. I
grabbed my spear with my right hand and went into a clumsily
balanced right-handed stance, the butt of my spear forward. I flung
myself and the butt of the spear straight ahead and got him under
the ribs, taking the wind out of him.</p>

<p>After that it was just a couple of easy moves to disarm him and
put him on his back in the mud with the tip of my spear at his
throat. The whole thing didn&rsquo;t take ten, twelve seconds.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re wrong,&rdquo; I told him. &ldquo;I
wasn&rsquo;t there. But if you was right you should&rsquo;ve
remembered that the Nightstalkers are only second best,
one-on-one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I lifted the spear, stepped back, put the guard on, handed the
weapon to Corporal Royal, headed for my place in ranks. I prayed a
lot as I did. Nobody would look me in the eye. The guys were all
scared shitless.</p>

<p>The Nightstalker took his time getting up. He was as pale as
I&rsquo;ve ever seen a guy get without doing a lot of bleeding,
which he knew he could have done. He waved off any help. He
recovered spear and guard and made a point of cleaning the weapon
while forty-seven guys waited for something to happen.</p>

<p>He looked around, said, &ldquo;You learn something every day. If
you&rsquo;re smart. Let&rsquo;s have the next six men up
here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Everybody sighed. Me included. The shit storm was on hold for a
while.</p>

<p>I noticed that hothead Ken looking at my cheek like he never
noticed the mark there before. Maybe the cold made it show up
more.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide61.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide63.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

