<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Dawn of Amber</title>
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="amber.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide22.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a>
</small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">TWENTY-ONE</h2>

<p>With everyone living on the ground floor, I didn&rsquo;t think
it would take long to find all my brothers and sisters. I found
Aber waiting impatiently outside Dworkin&rsquo;s rooms.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well?&rdquo; he demanded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;From the way you went racing in there, I thought
something had happened. Did it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shook my head. &ldquo;Actually, we <em>have</em> come up with
a plan. I think it&rsquo;s going to work, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Great! Tell me about it. What can I do to
help?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We have to find everyone first.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I just saw Freda and Pella in the kitchens,&rdquo; he
said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Fetch them. I&rsquo;ll see who else I can find.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We split up. I headed for the dining hall, and there I found
Blaise, Titus, and Conner seated at the long table&mdash;now
pushing up against the far wall. A cold supper of roast chicken,
grilled vegetables, and what looked like meat pudding sat before
them.</p>

<p>They grew silent the second I walked in, and from their guilty
expressions, I knew they had been talking about me.</p>

<p>Well, let them. I had nothing to hide. And it looked very much
like I&rsquo;d be their savior.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What news?&rdquo; Conner asked after a few awkward
seconds.</p>

<p>I said, &ldquo;Our father has come up with a plan. He wants to
see everyone in his workshop. Right now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s about time,&rdquo; Blaise said, throwing down
her napkin and standing. &ldquo;What is he up to?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Later,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;when everyone gets there. Do
you know where anyone else is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Blaise hesitated.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Tell me! &ldquo;I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s Fenn and Isadora,&rdquo; Conner said suddenly.
&ldquo;They aren&rsquo;t here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What!&rdquo; I stared at the three of them.
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t tell me they&rsquo;re trying to slip past the
hell-creatures&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; Blaise said. &ldquo;They left three days ago
by Trump. Just before the problems started. They went for help. We
weren&rsquo;t supposed to tell
anyone&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;they swore us to
secrecy.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I cursed. They might be dead or captured. Then a worse thought
struck. Had we just found our traitor&mdash;or should I say,
traitors?</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you know where they went?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s Locke&rsquo;s fault,&rdquo; Titus exclaimed.
&ldquo;He put them up to something.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They didn&rsquo;t say,&rdquo; Blaise said. &ldquo;We were
just supposed to cover for them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Fenn called it a secret mission,&rdquo; Conner added.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And none of you has the slightest idea what it
was?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s right,&rdquo; Blaise said.</p>

<p>I sighed. Well, perhaps it made things simpler. Two less bodies
to save. Two less possible complications to our escape.</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Go join our father. I
still have to find Leona and Syara.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think they&rsquo;re still in the audience hall,&rdquo;
Blaise said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thanks.&rdquo; I nodded. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll check there
first.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I watched them go, then hurried to the audience hall. Sure
enough, I found Leona and Syara helping tend to wounded soldiers.
Some of the more grievously injured had been brought here from the
battlefields.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Father wants to see us all,&rdquo; I said, drawing them
aside. &ldquo;Leave them to the physicians.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They hesitated a second, looking at the injured and dying.
Clearly they didn&rsquo;t want to leave their charges.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s very important.&rdquo; I linked my arms
through theirs and gently steered them toward the door.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not allowed to take &lsquo;No&rsquo; for an
answer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Very well,&rdquo; Syara said with a sigh. &ldquo;But
there are men dying here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Dad has a plan,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;He needs us all
there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>At that, they gave in and let me lead them back to our
father&rsquo;s workshop.</p>

<p>The door stood open. I brought them inside, counting heads. Yes,
everyone had come. They clustered around Dworkin, chattering
happily, asking questions which he answered with knowing
smiles.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Here is Oberon. Ready, my
boy?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; I shut and barred the door.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s this plan?&rdquo; Conner asked me.</p>

<p>Everyone echoed his sentiments.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you done with the Trumps?&rdquo; I asked Dworkin.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;re leaving,&rdquo; I told my brothers and
sisters. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re going to split up&mdash;head to
different Shadows. I want you all to stay there at least a year or
two. Do nothing involving the Logrus. Let&rsquo;s see if we
can&rsquo;t outlast our enemies.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But the Trumps&mdash;&rdquo; Freda began.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We now have a few that work,&rdquo; I told her.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s all you need to know for the moment.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She still looked upset, so I added, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s for
everyone&rsquo;s safety. We&rsquo;re going to pair up. None of you
will know where the other groups have gone. Hopefully, you&rsquo;ll
all be safe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who is first?&rdquo; Dworkin asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Leona and Syara,&rdquo; I said. They stood closest to me.
&ldquo;Give me the first Trump,&rdquo; I said to our father.</p>

<p>He passed me a card. I held it up, staring at it, feeling the
power of the image as it sprang to life.</p>

<p>A placid lake, swans swimming, sailboats racing across the
water. Beyond the water rose a golden-hued city, its bridges and
towers like spun glass. My sisters would be happy here, I
thought.</p>

<p>I pushed them through, saw them on the other side staring back
at me with startled expressions&mdash;and then they were gone.</p>

<p>I held a crumpled card in my hand. Silently, I passed it to
Dworkin, who thrust it into a candle&rsquo;s flame. It caught fire
like well-seasoned tinder, burning brightly and rapidly. He dropped
it to the stone floor, where it slowly turned to ash.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Next,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Conner and Titus.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They stepped forward, and as before, our father passed me one of
his new Trumps. I held it up, concentrating on the image.</p>

<p>This scene showed a busy street in a bustling city. Men on
horseback, tall buildings, shops selling arms and armor&mdash;the
perfect place for two young men to lose themselves in
adventures.</p>

<p>As the sights and smells and textures of this city leaped to
life, I pushed my brothers through. As before, I crumpled the Trump
in my hand, and they were gone.</p>

<p>Dworkin burned it, too.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Freda and Pella,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Pick us a nice world, Father,&rdquo; Freda said in a soft
tone.</p>

<p>He smiled at her lovingly, then passed me another Trump. I gazed
at it.</p>

<p>A winter palace, with snow falling. White horses decked in bells
and ribbons. Twin statues of Freda and Pella being worshipped as
goddesses.</p>

<p>I smiled. Yes, they would be happy here, I thought. I pushed
them through as the world came to life before me, and just before I
crumpled the page, I heard wild cheering as they appeared. The
goddesses had arrived. They would be well cared for.</p>

<p>That only left Aber and Blaise. I would never have paired them,
but with Fenn and Isadora gone, there didn&rsquo;t seem much
choice.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ready?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I suppose,&rdquo; Aber said, stepping forward bravely.
&ldquo;Coming, Sis?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She glared at him. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t call me that!&rdquo;</p>

<p>Oh yes, I thought, rolling my eyes, they were going to have a
lot of fun together. If they didn&rsquo;t rip each other&rsquo;s
throats out first.</p>

<p>Without comment, Dworkin passed me another Trump. I gazed down
at an elegant whitewashed villa. As it came to reality before me, I
smelled the ocean&rsquo;s brine and heard the soft calls of gulls
as they wheeled in a cloudless azure sky. It seemed almost
idyllic.</p>

<p>I helped Blaise through, then reached for Aber. But as he
stepped close, he snatched the Trump from my hand, ripped it in
half, and the doorway into Shadow vanished. My last glimpse of
Blaise showed her with hands on her hips and a furious expression
on her face.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you crazy!&rdquo; I demanded. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the
idea?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Grinning, Aber thrust the ruined Trump into a candle&rsquo;s
flame. It burned fast and bright.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You have to ask?&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not
living with <em>her</em> for a year or two! I&rsquo;d rather face a
legion of hell-creatures naked and unarmed!&rdquo;</p>

<p>I took a deep breath, then let it out with a laugh. &ldquo;All
right,&rdquo; I said, looking at our father. He looked distinctly
nonplussed. &ldquo;I guess we don&rsquo;t have any choice now. Like
it or not, you&rsquo;re coming with us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where?&rdquo; he asked eagerly.</p>

<p>Dworkin held up the last Trump.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where they least expect us,&rdquo; he said, smiling like
a shark about to devour its prey.</p>

<p>I looked down, a horrible cold feeling reaching up inside my
chest.</p>

<p>He had drawn the Courts of Chaos.</p>

<h3 class="chapter">HERE ENDS BOOK ONE OF <em>THE DAWN OF
AMBER</em></h3>
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide22.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a>
</small></div>
</body>
</html>

