<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Shadow Games</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="games.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide31.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide33.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">Chapter Thirty-one: TAGLIOS; A BOOT-CAMP
CITY</h2>

<p>It had been years since I hazarded internal surgery. Before I
started I was shaky and filled with doubts, but habit took hold in
the crunch. My hand was steady. One-Eye restrained his natural
exuberance and used his talents judiciously to control bleeding and
deaden pain.</p>

<p>As I washed my hands I said, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t believe it
went that well. I haven&rsquo;t done one of those since I was a
kid, practically.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She going to pull through?&rdquo; One-Eye asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Should. Unless there&rsquo;re complications. I want you
to check back every day to make sure she&rsquo;s doing all
right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey, Croaker. I got me an idea. Why don&rsquo;t you buy
me a broom?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;When I wasn&rsquo;t busy doing anything else I could be
sweeping up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll get myself one, too.&rdquo; I spoke to the
child&rsquo;s parents briefly, through Frogface, clueing them in on
what had to be done. Their gratitude was stifling. I doubted it
would last. People are that way. But as we were about to leave I
told the father, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll collect on this.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Anything.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It won&rsquo;t be trivial. When the time
comes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He understood. He looked grim as he nodded.</p>

<p>We were about to step into the street when One-Eye said,
&ldquo;Hold up.&rdquo; He pointed.</p>

<p>I looked down at three dead bats arranged in a neat equilateral
triangle. &ldquo;Maybe the boys aren&rsquo;t imagining things.&rdquo; The
bat cadavers were not neat.</p>

<p>A crow cawed somewhere nearby.</p>

<p>I muttered, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll take my help where I can get
it.&rdquo; Louder, &ldquo;Could you make a bat spy on
people?&rdquo;</p>

<p>One-Eye thought about it. &ldquo;I couldn&rsquo;t. But it might
be possible. Though they aren&rsquo;t long on brains.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s all I needed to know.&rdquo; Except for who
was running the bats. The Shadowmasters, I presumed.</p>

<p>The twenty-hour days started. When I was not preoccupied with
anything else I tried to learn the language. After you have learned
enough they come easy. Or easier, anyway.</p>

<p>We went at it trying to keep things simple. All the evidence
indicated that the Shadowmasters would use the Ghoja ford for their
main crossing. I abdicated the defense of the others to the cult
leaders and concentrated on what I thought I&rsquo;d need to stop
that main force in its tracks. If it got across the river and
started rolling north, I feared we would have a repeat of
Swan&rsquo;s campaign. Any victory at all would be at a price too
dear.</p>

<p>I started by forming the cadres of two legions based on the
model used by the Jewel Cities in early times, when their armies
were citizens with little field experience. The command structure
was the simplest possible. The organization was pure infantry.
Mogaba was overall commander of the foot and boss of the first
legion. His lieutenant Ochiba got the second legion. Each got to
keep ten Nar for NCOs and each of those ten picked a hundred
candidates from among the Taglian volunteers. That gave each legion
a thousand-man base which would be expanded about as fast as the
Nar could teach them to march in a straight line. Mogaba got
Wheezer, Lion, and Heart for staff work. I did not know what else
to do with those three. They were willing but had little practical
value.</p>

<p>Sindawe and the remaining Nar were to form a third, training and
reserve legion that I expected to employ only in desperation.</p>

<p>Otto, Hagop, the Guards, and the roi I charged with putting
together a cavalry force.</p>

<p>Sparkle, Candles, Cletus, and the rest from Opal and Beryl got
stuck with the fun stuff, quartermastering and engineering.
Hagop&rsquo;s nephew ended up with him. He was another one who was
useless.</p>

<p>The ideas were mostly Mogaba&rsquo;s recommendations, which he
had worked out while I was scouting southward. I did not agree with
all of them, but it seemed a sin to waste the work he had done. And
we had to move in some direction. Now.</p>

<p>He had it all figured. Sindawe&rsquo;s legion would both produce
new people for the leading two units and would develop as a force
itself more slowly. He did not believe we could manage a force
larger than three legions till we developed a lot of local
talent.</p>

<p>Lady, Goblin, One-Eye, and I were left to handle everything
else. The important, exciting stuff, like dealing with the
Prahbrindrah and his sister. Like setting up an intelligence
operation, finding out if there were any local wizards we could
use. Charting strategy. Coming up with gimmicks. Good old Mogaba
was willing to leave me the staff work and strategy.</p>

<p>Actually, about the way it should be. The man embarrassed me
with his competence.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Goblin, I guess you should take
counterintelligence,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Har!&rdquo; One-Eye said. &ldquo;That fits him
perfectly.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Borrow Frogface whenever you need him.&rdquo; The imp
moaned. He got no pleasure out of having to work.</p>

<p>Goblin put on a smug look. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t need that thing,
Croaker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I did not like that. The runt was up to something. Ever since we
came back from the country he had had that smugness about him. It
meant trouble. He and One-Eye could get so involved in their feud
they forgot the rest of the world.</p>

<p>Time would tell what was up.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Whatever you say,&rdquo; I told Goblin. &ldquo;As long as
you get the job done. Dangerous agents of the Shadowmasters I want
you to take out. Small-timers set up so we can feed them false
information. We&rsquo;ve also got to keep one eye on the big
priests. They&rsquo;re bound to give us grief as soon as they
figure out how. Human nature.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Lady I put in charge of showmanship and planning. I had decided
where I wanted to meet the enemy already, before I had anything to
meet him with. I told her to work out the details. She was a better
tactician than I. She had managed the armies of an empire with
astonishing success.</p>

<p>I was learning that part of a captain&rsquo;s job is to
delegate. Maybe genius lies in choosing the right person for the
right task.</p>

<p>We had maybe five weeks. And the time was counting down. And
down. And down.</p>

<p>I did not think we had a prayer.</p>

<p>Nobody got much sleep. Everybody got testy. But that is the way
it is in our business. You learn to adjust to it, to understand.
Mogaba kept telling me it was going great on his end, but I never
got time to review his outfits. Hagop and Otto were less pleased
with their progress. Their recruits were of classes that saw
discipline as something imposed only upon their inferiors. Otto and
Hagop had to resort to asskicking to get their people in line. They
came up with a couple of interesting ideas, like adding elephants
to the cavalry. The Prahbrindrah&rsquo;s census of animals had
turned up a few hundred work elephants.</p>

<p>I spent my time rushing around in confusion, more often a
politician than a commander. I avoided recourse to dictate when I
could, preferring persuasion, but two of the High Priests gave me
no choice most of the time. If I said black they said white just to
let me know they considered themselves Taglios&rsquo;s real
bosses.</p>

<p>If I&rsquo;d had time I&rsquo;d have gotten vexed with them. I
didn&rsquo;t, so I didn&rsquo;t play their games. I got them and
their chief boys together, with the Prahbrindrah and his sister
chaperoning, and told them I didn&rsquo;t care for their attitude,
that I would not tolerate it, and the schedule from here on in was
do it Croaker&rsquo;s way or die. If they didn&rsquo;t like that,
they were welcome to take their best crack at me. Then I would
roast them over a slow fire in one of the public squares.</p>

<p>I did not make myself popular.</p>

<p>I was bluffing, sort of. I would do what had to be done, but did
not expect to have to do it. My apparently violent nature should
cow them while I got on with the job. I would worry about them
after I&rsquo;d turned the Shadowmasters.</p>

<p>Thinking positive all the time. That&rsquo;s me.</p>

<p>I&rsquo;d have starved if I&rsquo;d gotten a pound of bread for
every minute I really believed we had a chance.</p>

<p>Several people made sure news of the face-off got out. I heard
rumors that some temples closed their doors for lack of business.
Others had to turn away angry crowds.</p>

<p>Great.</p>

<p>But how long would it last? These peoples&rsquo; passion for
supernatural nonsense was far older and more ingrained than their
passion for militarism.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What the hell happened?&rdquo; I asked Swan, first chance
I got. I was getting the language, but not fast enough to grasp
religious subtleties.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think Blade happened.&rdquo; He seemed bemused.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Say what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ever since we&rsquo;ve been here Blade&rsquo;s been
spreading seditious nonsense about priests should stick to taking
care of souls and karma and keep their noses out of politics. Been
selling that down to our place. And when he heard about your confab
with the High Priests he got himself out in the streets to spread
what he called &lsquo;the true story.&rsquo; These people are all
for their gods, you better remember that, but they ain&rsquo;t so
hot on some of their priests. Especially the kind that grab them by
the purse and squeeze.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I laughed. Then I said, &ldquo;You tell him to back off.
I&rsquo;ve got troubles enough without a religious
revolution.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right. I don&rsquo;t think you got to worry about
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I had to worry about everything. Taglian society was under
extreme stress, though it took an outsider to see it. Too many
changes too fast in a traditionalist, restrictive society. No way
for conventional mechanisms to adjust. Saving Taglios would be like
riding the whirlwind. I would have to stay light on my feet to keep
the frustration and fear directed against the Shadowmasters.</p>

<p>One-Eye wakened me in the middle of one of my four-hour snoozes.
&ldquo;Jahamaraj Jah is here. Says he&rsquo;s got to see you right
now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;His kid take a turn for the worse?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She&rsquo;s fine. He thinks he&rsquo;s going to pay you
off.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Bring him in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The priest slipped in looking furtive. He bowed and scraped like
a street dweller. He plied me with every title the Taglian people
had been able to imagine, including Healer. Appendectomy was a
piece of surgery unknown in those parts. He looked around as though
expecting ears growing out of the walls. Maybe that was an
occupational hazard. He did not like the sight of Frogface at
all.</p>

<p>That suggested some people knew what the imp was. I should keep
that in mind.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is it safe to talk?&rdquo; he asked. I followed that
without translation.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I must not stay long. They will be watching me, knowing I
owe you a great debt, Healer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Then get on with it, I thought. &ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The High Priest of the Shadar, my superior, Ghojarindi
Ghoj, whose patron is Hada, one of whose avatars is Death. You
distressed him the other night. He has told the Children of Hada
that Hada thirsts for your ka.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Frogface translated, and added commentary. &ldquo;Hada is the
Shadar goddess of Death, Destruction, and Corruption, Cap. The
Children of Hada are a subcult who dedicate themselves by way of
murder and torture. Doctrine says that should be random and
senseless. The way it works out, though, is that those who die have
got onto the boss priest&rsquo;s shitlist.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see.&rdquo; I smiled slightly. &ldquo;And who is your
patron, Jahamaraj Jah?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He smiled back. &ldquo;Khadi.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All Sweetness and Light, I take it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hell no, chief. She&rsquo;s Hada&rsquo;s twin sister.
Just as damned nasty. Got her fingers into plague, famine, disease,
fun stuff like that. One of the big things the Shadar and Gunni
cults squabble about is whether Hada and Khadi are separate deities
or just one with two faces.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I love it. I bet people get killed over it. And priests
look at me weird when I say I can&rsquo;t take them seriously.
One-Eye. You figure I&rsquo;m guessing right when I think our buddy
here is helping himself by trying to weasel out of a
debt?&rdquo;</p>

<p>One-Eye chuckled. &ldquo;I figure he plans to be the next Shadar
boss.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I had Frogface go straight at him. He did not blush. He admitted
he was the most likely successor to Ghojarindi Ghoj.</p>

<p>&ldquo;In that case I don&rsquo;t figure he&rsquo;s done
anything but make the vig. Tell him thanks but I figure he still
owes me. Tell him that if he all of a sudden finds himself boss
priest of the Shadar I&rsquo;d be real proud if he&rsquo;d make his
people mind and not get too ambitious himself for a year or
two.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Frogface told him. His grin went away. His lips tightened into a
wrinkly little nut. But he bobbed his head.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Get him on the road, One-Eye. Wouldn&rsquo;t want him
getting in trouble with his boss.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I went and wakened Goblin. &ldquo;We got priest problems.
Character named Ghojarindi Ghoj is siccing assassins on me. Take
Murgen, go over to Swan&rsquo;s dive, dig out his resident priest
hater, have him finger the guy. He needs promoting to a higher
plane. It don&rsquo;t have to be spectacular, just unpleasant. Like
having him shit himself to death.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Grumbling, Goblin went to find Murgen.</p>

<p>One-Eye and Frogface got to watch for would-be assassins.</p>

<p>They were professionals but they were not up to getting past
Frogface. There were six of them. I had some of the Nar, who
favored that sort of thing, take them to a public square and impale
them.</p>

<p>Ghojarindi Ghoj went west a day later. He perished of a sudden,
dramatic surfeit of boils. The lesson was not lost on anyone.</p>

<p>The lesson was, of course, don&rsquo;t get caught.</p>

<p>Nobody seemed upset or displeased. The attitude was, Ghoj had
placed his bets and taken his chances. But the Radisha did give me
some thoughtful looks while we fussed over whether I needed another
thousand swords and especially if I needed the hundred tons of
charcoal I had requisitioned.</p>

<p>Actually, we were to the games-playing stage already. I asked
for a hundred tons knowing I wanted ten, figuring to groan and
gripe and give in and get more of the arms.</p>

<p>The recruits were providing their own kit. The arms I most
wanted financed by the state were pieces that could not be well
explained to a civilian. I was having trouble enough convincing
Mogaba that wheeled light artillery might be of value.</p>

<p>I was not sure it would myself. That depended on what the enemy
did. If they behaved as they had before, artillery would be wasted.
But the model was the Jewel Cities legion. Those guys dragged light
engines along to knock holes in enemy formations.</p>

<p>Oh, fuss. Some things you just settle by saying I&rsquo;m the
boss and you&rsquo;ll do it my way.</p>

<p>Mogaba did not mind.</p>

<p>Seventeen days to go, estimated. Lady visited me. I asked her,
&ldquo;Will you be ready?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m almost ready now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;One positive report amongst the hundreds. You brighten my
life.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She gave me a funny look. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve seen Shifter.
He&rsquo;s been across the river.&rdquo; One-Eye and Goblin, in
their capacities as spymasters, had had little luck, mostly because
the Main was just plain uncrossable. They had no lack of
volunteers.</p>

<p>As for cleaning up the Shadowmasters&rsquo; agents in Taglios,
that had not taken them ten days. A bunch of little brown guys had
bitten the dust. A few native Taglians remained. We were feeding
them plenty of truth, and just enough bull to tempt their masters
into making their major crossing effort where I wanted it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah. And did he learn anything we want to hear?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She grinned. &ldquo;He did. You get your wish. They&rsquo;ll
bring their main force over at the Ghoja ford. And they won&rsquo;t
be with their armies. They don&rsquo;t trust each other enough to
leave home base unguarded.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Beautiful. Suddenly, I feel like we&rsquo;ve got a
chance. Maybe only one in ten, but a chance.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And now for the bad news.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I guess it had to be. What is it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re sending an extra five thousand men. Ten
thousand in the Ghoja force. A thousand each at Theri and
Vehdna-Bota. The rest come across at Numa. They tell me Numa is
crossable two days earlier than the Ghoja ford is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s bad. They could have three thousand guys
behind us when it hits.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They will unless they&rsquo;re morons.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I closed my eyes and looked at the map. Numa was where I had
told Jahamaraj Jah his Shadar people could make their mark. He had
raised twenty-five hundred cultists only by straining. Most Shadars
wanted to wait and get into our ecumenical force. Three thousand
veterans would roll right over him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Cavalry?&rdquo; I asked. &ldquo;Have Jah meet them at the
water&rsquo;s edge and do what he can, and fall back, and have our
cavalry hit them from the flank as they&rsquo;re about to break
out?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was considering sneaking Mogaba&rsquo;s legion down,
smash them, then rout march to Ghoja. But you&rsquo;re right.
Cavalry would be more efficient. Do you trust Otto and Hagop to
handle it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I did not. They were having their problems taking charge.
Without the bloodyminded roi to kick ass where that was needed,
their force would have been a travelling circus. &ldquo;You want
it? You done a field command?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She looked at me hard. &ldquo;Where have you been?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Right. I&rsquo;d been there often enough.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You want it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you want me to take it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Singe me to a crisp in the fire of your enthusiasm. All
right. But we won&rsquo;t tell anybody till it&rsquo;s time. And
Jahamaraj Jah not at all. He&rsquo;ll try harder if he don&rsquo;t
know help is coming.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Any other news from our seldom-seen friend?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who is that woman he&rsquo;s dragging around?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She hesitated a moment too long. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t
know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Odd. Seems like I&rsquo;ve seen her somewhere before. But
I can&rsquo;t place her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She shrugged. &ldquo;After a while everybody gets to look like
somebody you&rsquo;ve seen before.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who do I look like?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She didn&rsquo;t miss a beat. &ldquo;Gastrar Telsar of Novok
Debraken. The voice is different, but the heart could be the same.
He moralized and debated with himself, too.&rdquo;</p>

<p>How could I argue? I&rsquo;d never heard of the guy.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He moralized once too often. My husband had him
flayed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You think I moralized about Ghoj?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes. I think you put yourself through hell after the
fact. A net gain. You&rsquo;ve gotten smart enough to get them
first and cry later.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think I want to play this game.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. You wouldn&rsquo;t. I need some of your time for
tailors to take your measurements.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Say what? I got me a flashy uniform already.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not like this one. This one is for boggling the minions
of the Shadowmasters. Part of the showmanship.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right. Whenever. I can work while I&rsquo;m being
measured. Is Shifter going to be there for the show at
Ghoja?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;ll find out the hard way. He didn&rsquo;t say. I
told you, he has his own agenda.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wouldn&rsquo;t mind having a peek at that. He give you
one?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. Mogaba is staging a mock battle between legions
today. You going?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. I&rsquo;m going to be sucking up to the Radisha for
more transport. I got the charcoal. Now I got to get it down
there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She snorted. &ldquo;Things were different in my time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You had more power.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s true. I&rsquo;ll send the tailors and
fitters.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I wondered what she had in mind&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
What? Did I see that? What was that? Did she shake her tail as she
was going out? Damn me. My eyes must be starting to go.</p>

<p>Weekly assessment session. I asked Murgen, &ldquo;How&rsquo;s
the bat situation?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; I had caught him from the blind side.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You brought the bat problem up. I thought you were
keeping track.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t seen any for a while.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. That means Goblin and One-Eye got the right people
out of the way. From where I sit everything looks like it&rsquo;s
going smooth. Probably faster than we had reason to expect.&rdquo;
I&rsquo;d had no individual complaints for a while. Lady had found
time to help Otto and Hagop put the fear into their snooty
horsemen. &ldquo;Mogaba?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Twelve days left on the worst-case estimate. It&rsquo;s
time to put teams out to watch the river stages. Worst case might
not be absolutely worst.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Radisha is ahead of you. I talked to her yesterday.
She&rsquo;d just grabbed off half the post riders for that. Right
now the river is running higher than expected. That may not mean
anything. We&rsquo;ll have plenty of weather yet.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Every day we get is another hundred men I can take into
each legion.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where are you at now?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thirty-three hundred each. I&rsquo;ll stop at four
thousand. Be time to move out then, anyway.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Think five days is enough to get down there? That&rsquo;s
twenty miles a day for guys who aren&rsquo;t used to it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;ll be used to it. They do ten a day with field
pack now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll get out to look them over this week. Promise.
I&rsquo;ve got the political end pretty well whipped. Hagop. You
guys going to be ready?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s coming together, Croaker. They&rsquo;ve
started to realize we mean it when we say we&rsquo;re trying to
show them how to stay alive.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s getting close enough that they have to think
about it as more than a game. Big Bucket. How about you
guys?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Get us fifty more wagons and we can roll tomorrow,
Captain.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You look at the sketches of that town?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes sir.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How long to set it up?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Depends on materials. For the palisade. And manpower. Lot
of trenching. The rest, no problem.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll have the manpower. Sindawe&rsquo;s bunch.
They&rsquo;ll go down with you and move on later, as our reserve.
I&rsquo;ll tell you, though, the resource situation is bleak.
You&rsquo;ll end up depending on the trench more than the palisade.
Cletus. What about artillery?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cletus and his brothers grinned. They looked proud of
themselves. &ldquo;We got it. Six mobile engines for each legion,
already built. We&rsquo;re working the crews on them
now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Great. I want you to go down with the quartermasters and
engineers and get a look at that town. Put some of the engines in
there. Big Bucket, you guys better head out as soon as you can. The
roads are going to be miserable. If you really need more wagons
mooch them from the citizens. Be quicker than me trying to gouge
them out of the Radisha. So. Can&rsquo;t anybody come up with
anything I can fuss myself about? You know I&rsquo;m not happy
unless I&rsquo;m worrying.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They looked at me blankly. Finally, Murgen blurted out,
&ldquo;We&rsquo;re going to meet their ten thousand with our eight?
Isn&rsquo;t that worry enough? Sir?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ten thousand?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s the rumor. That the Shadowmasters increased
the invasion force.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I glanced at Lady. She shrugged. I said, &ldquo;We have
unreliable intelligence to that effect. But we&rsquo;ll be more
than eight thousand with the cavalry. With Sindawe we&rsquo;ll
actually outnumber them. We&rsquo;ll have the field position. And I
have a trick or two up my sleeve.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That charcoal?&rdquo; Mogaba asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Among other things.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You won&rsquo;t tell us?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nope. Word has a way of getting around. If nobody but me
knows I can&rsquo;t blame anybody but me if the other side finds
out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Mogaba smiled. He understood me too well. I just wanted to keep
it for myself.</p>

<p>We commanders are that way, sometimes.</p>

<p>My predecessors never told anybody anything till it was time to
jump.</p>

<p>Afterward, I asked Lady, &ldquo;What do you think?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think they&rsquo;re going to know they were in a fight.
I still have grave doubts about winning, but maybe you&rsquo;re a
better captain than you want to admit. You put every man where he
can do the most good.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Or least harm.&rdquo; Wheezer and Hagop&rsquo;s nephew
still had not shown me they were good for anything.</p>

<p>Seven days till deadline. The quartermasters and engineers and
Sindawe&rsquo;s reserve legion were two days gone. Incoming post
riders reported their progress as disappointing. The roads were
hopeless. But they were getting help from people along the way. In
places the troops and locals backpacked the freight while the teams
dragged the empty wagons through the mud.</p>

<p>We were going to get some grace. We were still getting drizzle
when that should have ended a week ago. Reports had the fords way
too high to cross. The watchers guessed we had at least five extra
days.</p>

<p>I told Mogaba, who needed time more than anyone else. He
grumbled that his main accomplishment to date was that he had
taught his troops to march in straight lines.</p>

<p>I thought that was the critical lesson. If they could maintain
order on the battlefield&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>I was not comfortable with the gift of time. As each day
perished in turn, and I had more reports of the trouble the advance
party was having, I grew ever more antsy.</p>

<p>Two days before our originally planned departure I summoned
Mogaba. &ldquo;Have you relaxed any because of the extra
time?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not easing up at all?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. If we leave five days later, they&rsquo;ll be five
days more prepared.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good.&rdquo; I leaned back in my chair.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re troubled.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That mud. I had Frogface go scout. Sindawe is still
twenty miles from Vejagedhya. What&rsquo;ll it be like for the mob
we&rsquo;ll take down?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re thinking of leaving
early?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m seriously considering leaving when we
originally planned. Just to make sure. If we&rsquo;re there early
we can get rested and maybe a little more trained under field
conditions.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded again. Then took me by surprise. &ldquo;You play
hunches sometimes, don&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I lifted an eyebrow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve watched you since Gea-Xle. I&rsquo;m beginning
to understand how your mind works, I think. And sometimes I think
you don&rsquo;t understand yourself well enough. You&rsquo;ve been
troubled all week. That is a sign you have a hunch trying to come
through.&rdquo; He left his chair. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll proceed on the
assumption that you&rsquo;ll leave early.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He left. I thought about him knowing how my mind works. Should I
feel flattered or threatened?</p>

<p>I went to a window, opened it, looked at the night sky. I saw
stars between racing clouds. Maybe the cycle of daily drizzle was
over. Or maybe it was just another pause.</p>

<p>I went back to work. My current project, taken
catch-as-catch-can, was one I was working on with Frogface. We were
trying to figure out what had become of the books missing from all
the libraries around town. I had an idea that a certain anonymous
official had them squirreled away in the Prahbrindrah&rsquo;s
palace. The question was, how to get to them? Invoke my powers as
dictator?</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ignore the river.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Say what?&rdquo; I looked around. &ldquo;What the
hell?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ignore the river.&rdquo;</p>

<p>A crow stood on the windowsill. Another settled beside it. It
delivered the same message.</p>

<p>Crows are smart. But only for bird brains. I asked what they
were talking about. They told me to ignore the river. I could put
them on the rack and they would not tell me more. &ldquo;All right.
I got it. Ignore the river. Shoo.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Crows. All the time with the damned crows. They were trying to
tell me something, sure. What? They had warned me before. Were they
saying I should pay no attention to the river stages?</p>

<p>That was my inclination anyway, because of the mud.</p>

<p>I went to the door and yelled, &ldquo;One-Eye! Goblin! I need
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They mustered in looking surly, standing well away from one
another. Not a good sign. They were feuding again. Or working up to
it. It had been so long since they had eased the pressure that it
might be a major blowup.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Tonight&rsquo;s the night, guys. Take out the rest of the
Shadowmasters&rsquo; agents.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought we had some extra time,&rdquo; One-Eye
carped.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We might have. And we might not. I want it done now. Take
care of it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Under his breath Goblin muttered, &ldquo;Yessir your
dictatorship, sir.&rdquo; I gave him a dirty look. He moved out. I
went to the window and stared out at that clearing sky.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I had a feeling things were going too good.&rdquo;</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide31.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide33.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

