<html>

<head>
<title>Chapter 6</title>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 3.0">
<meta name="Microsoft Theme" content="none, default">
<meta name="Microsoft Border" content="none, default">
</head>

<body>

<h3 id="_RWTOC-1">Chapter 6</h3>

<p>THE SKY LIGHTENED AS, sack over shoulder, he trudged steadily eastward. The air was
chill and snakes of mist coiled among gray grasses; valleys and gulches were filled with
fog; the stars pierced a ghostly film of cloud; breezes from a nearby tarn lapped moistly
at the rocky land.</p>

<p>Pausing for a moment, Jack shifted his burden to his right shoulder. He turned and
considered the dark land he was leaving. He had come far and he had come quickly. Yet,
farther must he go. With every step he took toward the light, his enemies' powers to
afflict him were lessened. Soon, he would be lost to them. They would continue to seek
him, however; they would not forget. Therefore, he did what must be done&#151;he fled. He
would miss the dark land, with its witcheries, cruelties, wonders and delights. It held
his life, containing as it did the objects of his hatred and his love. He knew that he
would have to return, bringing with him that which would serve to satisfy both.</p>

<p>Turning, he trudged on.</p>

<p>The shadows had borne him to his cache near Twilight, where he stored the magical
documents he had accumulated over the years. He wrapped these carefully and bore them with
him into the east. Once he achieved Twilight he would be relatively safe; when he passed
beyond it, he would be out of danger.</p>

<p>Climbing, he worked his way into the Rennsial Mountains, at the point where the range
lay nearest Twilight; there, he sought Panicus, the highest ridge.</p>

<p>Mounting above the mist, he saw the dim and distant form of Morningstar outlined
against the Everdawn. There on his crag, couchant, unmoving, he faced the east. To one who
did not know, he would have seemed a wind-sculpted pinnacle atop Panicus. Indeed, he was
more than half of stone, his cat-like torso a solid thing joined with the ridge. His wings
lay folded flat upon his back, and Jack knew&#151;though he approached him from the
rear&#151;that his arms would still be crossed upon his breast, left over right, that the
breezes had not disturbed his wire-like hair and beard, that his lidless eyes would still
be fixed upon the eastern horizon.</p>

<p>There was no trail and the last several hundred feet of the ascent required the
negotiation of a near-vertical face of stone. As always, for the shadows were heavy here,
Jack strode up it as he would cross a horizontal plane. Before he reached the summit, the
winds were screaming about him; but they did not drown out the voice of Morningstar, which
rose as from the bowels of the mountain beneath him.</p>

<p>&quot;Good morning, Jack.&quot;</p>

<p>He stood beside his left flank and stared high into the air, where Morningstar's head,
black as the night he had left, was haloed by a fading cloud.</p>

<p>&quot;Morning?&quot; said Jack.</p>

<p>&quot;Almost. It is always almost morning.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Where?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Everywhere.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I have brought you drink.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I draw water from the clouds and the rain.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I brought you wine, drawn from the grape.&quot;</p>

<p>The great, lightning-scarred visage turned slowly toward him, horns dipping forward.
Jack looked away from the unblinking eyes whose color he could never remember. There is
something awful about eyes which never see that which they were meant to look upon.</p>

<p>His left hand descended and the scarred palm lay open before Jack. He placed his
wineskin upon ii. Morningstar raised it, drained it, and dropped it at Jack's feet. He
wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, belched lightly, returned his gaze to the east.</p>

<p>&quot;What do you want, Shadowjack?&quot; he asked.</p>

<p>&quot;Of you? Nothing.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Then why do you bring me wine whenever you pass this way?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You seem to like it.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I do.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You are perhaps my only friend,&quot; said Jack. &quot;You have nothing that I
wish to steal. I have nothing that you really need.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It may be that you pity me, bound as I am to this spot.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;What is pity?&quot; asked Jack.</p>

<p>&quot;Pity is that which bound me here, to await the dawn.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Then I'll have none of it,&quot; said Jack, &quot;for I've a need to move
around.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I know. The one-half world has been informed that you have broken the
Compact.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Do they know why?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;No.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Do you?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Of course.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;How?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;From the shape of a cloud I know that a man in a distant city will quarrel with
his wife three seasons hence and a murderer will be hanged before I finish speaking. From
the falling of a stone I know the number of maidens being seduced and the movements of
icebergs on the other side of the world. From the texture of the wind I know where next
the lightning will fall. So long have I watched and so much am I part of all things, that
nothing is hidden from me.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You know where I go?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Yes.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;And what I would do there?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I know that, too.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Then tell me if you know, will I succeed in that which I desire?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You will succeed in that which you are about, but by then it may not be what you
desire.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I do not understand you, Morningstar.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I know that, too. But that is the way it is with all oracles, Jack. When that
which is foreseen comes to pass, the inquirer is no longer the same person he was when he
posed the question. It is impossible to make a man understand what he will become with the
passage of time; and it is only a future self to whom a prophecy is truly relevant.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Fair enough,&quot; said Jack. &quot;Only I am not a man. I am a darksider.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You are all men, whatever side of the world you call home.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I have no soul, and I do not change.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You change,&quot; said Morningstar. &quot;Everything that lives changes or dies.
Your people are cold but their world is warm, endowed as it is with enchantment,
glamourie, wonder. The lightlanders know feelings you will not understand, though their
science is as cold as your people's hearts. Yet they would appreciate your realm if they
did not fear it so and you might enjoy their feelings but for the same reason. Still, the
capacity is there, in each of you. The fear need but give way to understanding, for you
are mirror images of one another. So do not speak to me of souls when you have never seen
one, man.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It is as you said&#151;I do not understand.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack seated himself upon a rock and, as did Morningstar, stared into the east.</p>

<p>After a time, &quot;You told me that you wait here for the dawn,&quot; he said,
&quot;to see the sun rise above the horizon.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Yes.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I believe that you will wait here forever.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It is possible.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Don't you know? I thought you knew all things.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I know many things, not all things. There is a difference.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Then tell me some things. I have heard daysiders say that the core of the world
is a molten demon, that the temperature increases as one descends toward it, that if the
crust of the world be pierced then fires leap forth and melted minerals build volcanoes.
Yet I know that volcanoes are the doings of fire elementals who, if disturbed, melt the
ground about them and hurl it upward. They exist in small pockets. One may descend far
past them without the temperature increasing. Traveling far enough, one comes to the
center of the world, which is not molten&#151; which contains the Machine, with great
springs, as in a clock, and gears and pulleys and counterbalances. I know this to be true,
for I have journeyed that way and been near to the Machine itself. Still, the daysiders
have ways of demonstrating that their view is the correct one. I was almost convinced by
the way one man explained it, though I knew better. How can this be?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You were both correct,&quot; said Morningstar. &quot;It is the same thing that
you both describe, although neither of you sees it as it really is. Each of you colors
reality in keeping with your means of controlling it. For if it is uncontrollable, you
fear it. Sometimes then, you color it incomprehensible. In your case, a machine; in
theirs, a demon.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;The stars I know to be the houses of spirits and deities&#151;some friendly, some
unfriendly and many not caring. All are near at hand and can be reached. They will respond
when properly invoked. Yet the daysiders say that they are vast distances away and that
there is no intelligence there. Again. . .?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It is again but two ways of regarding reality, both of them correct.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;If there can be two ways, may there not be a third? Or a fourth? Or as many as
there are people, for that matter?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Yes,&quot; said Morningstar.</p>

<p>&quot;Then which one is correct?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;They all are.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;But to see it as it is, beneath it all! Is this possible?&quot;</p>

<p>Morningstar did not reply.</p>

<p>&quot;You,&quot; said Jack. &quot;Have you looked upon reality?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I see clouds and falling stones. I feel the wind.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;But by them, somehow, you know other things.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I do not know everything.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;But have you looked upon reality?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I&#151;Once. . . I await the sunrise. That is all.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack stared into the east, watching the pink-touched clouds. He listened to falling
stones and felt the wind, but there was no wisdom there for him.</p>

<p>&quot;You know where I go and what I would do,&quot; he said, after a time. &quot;You
know what will happen, and you know what I will be like a long while from now. From up
here on your mountain you can see all these things. You probably even know when I will die
my final death and the manner of its occurrence. You make my life seem futile, my
consciousness a thing that is merely along for the ride, unable to influence events.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;No,&quot; said Morningstar.</p>

<p>&quot;I feel that you say this only so that I will not be unhappy.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;No, I say it because there are shadows across your life which I cannot
pierce.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Why can't you?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It may be that our lives are in some way intertwined. Those things which affect
my own existence are always hidden from me.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;That's something, anyway,&quot; said Jack.</p>

<p>&quot;. . .Or it may be that, obtaining what you seek, you will place yourself beyond
predictability.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack laughed.</p>

<p>&quot;That would be pleasant,&quot; he said.</p>

<p>&quot;Perhaps not so pleasant as you would think.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack shrugged.</p>

<p>&quot;Whatever, I have no choice but to wait and see.&quot;</p>

<p>Far to his left and below&#151;too far to hear its steady roar&#151;a cataract plunged
hundreds of feet and vanished from sight behind a rocky spur. Much farther below, a large
stream meandered across a plain and wound its way through a dark forest. Farther still, he
could see the smoke that rose above a village on its bank. For a moment, and without
knowing why, he longed to walk through it, looking into windows and yards.</p>

<p>&quot;Why is it,&quot; he asked, &quot;that the Fallen Star who brought us knowledge of
the Art, did not extend it to the daysiders as well?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Perhaps,&quot; said Morningstar, &quot;the more theologically inclined among the
lightlanders ask why he did not grant the boon of science to the darksiders. What
difference does it make? I have heard the story that neither was the gift of the Fallen
One, but both the inventions of man; that his gift, rather, was that of consciousness,
which creates its own systems.&quot;</p>

<p>Then, panting and wheezing, with a great beating of dark green vanes, a dragon
collapsed upon their shelf of stone. The wind had covered the sounds of its coming. It lay
there, exhaling brief flames at a rapid rate. After a time, it rolled its apple-like red
eyes upward.</p>

<p>&quot;Hello, Morningstar,&quot; it said in silken tones. &quot;I hope you do not mind
my resting here a moment. Whoosh!&quot; It exhaled a longer flame, illuminating the entire
crag.</p>

<p>&quot;You may rest here,&quot; said Morningstar.</p>

<p>The dragon noticed Jack, fixed him with his gaze, did not look away.</p>

<p>&quot;I'm getting too old to fly over these mountains,&quot; it said. &quot;But the
nearest sheep are by that village on the other side.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack placed his foot within Morningstar's shadow as he asked, &quot;Then why don't you
move to the other side of the mountain?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;The light bothers me,&quot; it replied. &quot;I need a dark lair.&quot; Then, to
Morningstar, &quot;Is it yours?&quot; it said.</p>

<p>&quot;Is what mine?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;The man.&quot;</p>

<p>''No. He is his own.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Then I can save myself a journey and clean your ledge for you as well. He is
larger than a sheep, though doubtless less tasty.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack moved entirely within the shadow as the dragon exhaled a fountain of flames in his
direction. These vanished as he inhaled, and Jack breathed them back at the dragon.</p>

<p>It snorted in surprise and beat with a pinion at its eyes, which suddenly watered. A
shadow crept toward it then and fell across its face. This dampened a fresh attempt at
incineration.</p>

<p>&quot;You!&quot; it said, glimpsing the shadow-garbed figure. &quot;I thought you a
twilighter come to trouble dear Morningstar. But now I recognize you. You are the infamous
creature who pillaged my hoard! What did you do with my pale gold diadem of turquoise
stones, my fourteen finely wrought silver bracelets, and my sack of moon-bars which
numbered twenty-seven?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Now they are a part of my hoard,&quot; said Jack, &quot;and now you had best be
going. Though you are larger than a piece of mutton, and doubtless less tasty, I may break
my fast upon you.&quot;</p>

<p>He breathed another flame, and the dragon drew back.</p>

<p>&quot;Desist!&quot; said the dragon. &quot;Give me leave to rest here but another
moment, and I will depart.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Now!&quot; said Jack.</p>

<p>&quot;You are cruel, shadow man.&quot; The dragon sighed. &quot;Very well.&quot;</p>

<p>It stood, balancing its bulk with its long tail, then waddled and wheezed its way to
the edge of the ridge. Glancing back, it said, &quot;You are hateful,&quot; and then
pushed itself over and was gone from sight.</p>

<p>Jack moved to the edge and watched it fall. When it seemed that it would be dashed to
death upon the mountain's slope, its wings spread and caught the air; it rose then and
glided in the direction of the village in the forest near the stream.</p>

<p>&quot;I wonder as to the value of consciousness,&quot; said Jack, &quot;if it does not
change the nature of a beast.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;But the dragon was once a man,&quot; said Morningstar, ''and his greed
transformed him into what he is now.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I am familiar with the phenomenon,&quot; said Jack, &quot;for I was once,
briefly, a pack-rat.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Yet you overcame your passion and returned to manhood, as may the dragon one day.
By virtue of your consciousness you recognized and overcame certain of those elements
which made you subject to predictability. Consciousness tends to transform one. Why did
you not destroy the dragon?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;There was no need to,&quot; Jack began. Then he laughed. &quot;It's carcass would
have smelled up your cliff.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Was it not that you decided that there was no need to kill that which you did not
need to eat, or that which was no real threat to you?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;No,&quot; said Jack, &quot;for now I am just as responsible for the death of a
sheep and depriving some village man of future meals.&quot;</p>

<p>It took Jack several seconds to recognize the sound which followed, a grinding,
clicking noise. Morningstar was gnashing his teeth. A cold wind struck him then, and the
light dimmed in the east.</p>

<p>&quot;. . .Perhaps you were right,&quot; he heard Morningstar saying softly, as though
not addressing him, &quot;about consciousness. . .&quot; and his great, dark head was
lowered slightly.</p>

<p>Uncomfortable, Jack looked away from him. His eyes followed the white, unblinking star
which had always troubled him, as it moved on its rapid way from right to left in the
east.</p>

<p>&quot;The ruler of that star,&quot; he said, &quot;has resisted all spells of
communication. It moves differently from the others and faster. It does not twinkle. Why
is this?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It is not a true star, but an artificial object placed into orbit above Twilight
by the dayside scientists.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;To what end?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It was placed there to observe the border.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Why?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Do they fear you?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;We have no designs upon the lands of light.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I know. But do you not also watch the border, in your own way?&quot; asked Jack.</p>

<p>&quot;Of course.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Why?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;To be aware of what transpires along it.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;That is all?&quot; Jack snorted. &quot;If that object is truly above Twilight,
then it will be subject to magic as well as to its own laws. A strong enough spell will
affect it. One day, I will knock it down.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Why?&quot; asked Morningstar.</p>

<p>&quot;To show that my magic is superior to their science&#151;for one day it will
be.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It would seem unhealthy for either to gain supremacy.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Not if you are on the side that obtains it.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Yet you would use their methods to enhance your own effectiveness.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I will employ anything that serves my ends.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I am curious as to what the result will be, ultimately.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack moved to the eastern edge of the pinnacle, swung himself over it, found a
foothold, and looked upward.</p>

<p>&quot;Well, I cannot wait here with you for the sun to rise. I must go chase it down.
Good-bye, Morningstar.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Good morning, Jack.&quot;</p>

<p>Like a peddler, sack upon his shoulder, he trudged toward the light. He moved through
the smashed city of Deadfoot, not even glancing at the vine-webbed shrines of the useless
gods, its most noted tourist attraction. Their altars never bore offerings worth stealing.
Wrapping a scarf tightly about his head, he hurried up the famous Avenue of the Singing
Statues. Each of these, noted individualists in life, commenced his own song at the sound
of a footstep. Finally, after running (for it was a long thoroughfare), he emerged with
temporary deafness, shortness of breath and a headache.</p>

<p>Lowering his fist, he halted in the middle of a curse, at a loss for words. He could
think of no calamity to call down upon the deserted ruin which had not already been
visited upon it.</p>

<p>When I rule, things will be different, he decided. Cities will not be planned so
chaotically that they come to this.</p>

<p>Rule?</p>

<p>The thought had come unbidden into his head.</p>

<p>Well, why not? he asked himself. If I can obtain the power I seek, why not use it for
everything that is desirable? After I have obtained my vengeance, I will have to come to
terms with all those who are against me now. It might as well be as a conqueror. I am the
only one who needs no fixed place of power. I shall be able to defeat the others on their
own grounds once I hold the Key That Was Lost, Kolwynia. This thought must have been with
me all along. I will reward Rosalie for having suggested the means.&#151;And I must add to
my list. After I have had my revenge upon the Lord of Bats, Benoni, Smage, Quazer and
Blite, I will deal with the Baron and see that the Colonel Who Never Died has cause to
change his name.</p>

<p>It amused him that, among others, he bore within his sack those very manuscripts which
had aroused the Bat Lord's anger. For a time, he had actually considered the notion of
offering to barter them for his freedom. The only reason he had not was the realization
that the other would either accept and fail to release him, or&#151; what would be
worse&#151;would keep the bargain. The necessity of returning stolen goods would be the
greatest loss of face he had ever suffered. And this could only be expunged by doing what
he was now doing: pursuing the power that would grant him satisfaction. Without the
manuscripts, of course, this would be more difficult, and. . .</p>

<p>His head swam. He had been right, he decided, when he had spoken with Morningstar.
Consciousness, like the noise of the double-hundred statues of Deadfoot, was a thing of
discord and contradiction, giving rise to headaches.</p>

<p>Far to his right, the daysiders' satellite came into view once more. The world
brightened as</p>

<p>he moved forward. Smudges in distant fields, he saw the first beginnings of green
ahead. The clouds burned more brightly in the east. The first bird song he had heard in
ages reached his ears, and when he sought out the singer on its bough, he saw bright
plumage.</p>

<p>A good omen, he decided later, to be met with song.</p>

<p>He stamped out his fire and covered it over, along with the bones and the feathers,
before he continued toward day.&nbsp;</p>
</body>
</html>
