<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Silver Spike</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="spike.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide47.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide49.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">XLVII</h2>

<p>Does clay tire? Does the earth? No. The clay man loped
northward, hour after hour and mile after mile, day and night,
pausing seldom and then only to freshen the coat of grease,
spell-supported, that retained moisture and kept the clay
supple.</p>

<p>The miles passed away. The hulks of raped cities fell behind.
Suns rose and set. He crossed the southern frontier of the northern
empire. It was early in the day.</p>

<p>He had not gone far when he realized he was being paced by
imperial cavalry. He slowed. They slowed. He stopped. They drifted
into cover and waited.</p>

<p>They had been waiting for him. His return had been expected.</p>

<p>How? By whom? For how long? What lay ahead, specially prepared
for him?</p>

<p>He resumed his run, but more slowly, his senses keyed.</p>

<p>The cavalry worked in relays, no party riding more than five
miles before being relieved. If he turned toward them they
retreated. When he held to the road they closed in slowly, as
though carefully daring his might. He suspected they wanted him to
pursue them. He refused. He followed the road. In time he increased
his pace.</p>

<p>A subtle mind opposed him.</p>

<p>After a while the indrift of the riders sharpened, like a charge
starting to take shape&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>His attention ensnared thus, he nearly missed the slight
discoloration, the minuscule sag, in the road ahead. But catch it
he did. Pit trap. He hurled himself forward in a prodigious
leap.</p>

<p>Missiles filled the air. Several slammed into him, batting him
around, and he knew he had been taken. Arrows from saddle bows were
whistling around him before he regained his equilibrium. The
cavalry to his left had grown a little too daring. He faced them,
about to welcome them with death.</p>

<p>A five-hundred-pound stone ripped across his right shoulder so
close it brushed away the protective grease. He jumped, whirled. If
that had caught him square&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;He sensed no
presence on which to spend his wrath. He whirled again. The cavalry
were galloping away, already beyond retribution.</p>

<p>He removed the shafts from his body, surveyed the area. There
was no pit. Just the appearance of one with a trigger board much
better hidden under the dust where his foot must fall if he was
going to jump over. Even the stone had been hurled by an engine
triggered remotely and fortune had placed him a step out of the
line of fire.</p>

<p>That was the first trap. The next was a bridge over a small,
sluggish river. Barrels of naphtha had been rigged beneath it,
fixed to break open and catch fire when he stepped upon the bridge
decking.</p>

<p>This time the diversionary troops waited atop a ridge beyond the
river. Light engines hurled missiles at him as he used his power to
jam the mechanism meant to breach the barrels and start the
fire.</p>

<p>A five-pound rock hit him in the chest, flung him backward. He
sprang up angrily and sprinted toward his tormentors.</p>

<p>Held only by a feeble peg, the center section of the bridge
collapsed under his weight. The falling timbers smashed the naphtha
barrels. A swarm of fire missiles was in the air before he hit
water.</p>

<p>They had made a fool of him twice.</p>

<p>They would not live to try a third time.</p>

<p>He came boiling out of the water, up the bank below the burning
bridge, into the face of renewed missile fire,
bellowing&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>He tripped something. A vast net flew up, toward, and over him.
Its cables were as strong as steel but of a sticky, flexible
substance like spider silk. The more he struggled, the more tangled
he became. And something kept drawing the net tighter and dragging
him back toward the water. He would have great difficulty with the
verbal parts of his sorcery beneath the river.</p>

<p>The knowledge of the possibility that he might be vanquished by
lesser beings stabbed through him like a blade of ice. He was up
against something he could not overcome by brute force.</p>

<p>The blow of fear&mdash;the existence of which he could not
confess even to himself&mdash;stilled his rage, made him take time
to think, to act appropriately.</p>

<p>He tried a couple of sorceries. The second effected a break in
the net just before he was pulled beneath the surface.</p>

<p>He came out of the river carefully, with concentration, and so
avoided a trap armed with a blade that could have sliced him in
two. Safe for the moment, he took stock. Minor, all the damage done
him. But a dozen such encounters could accumulate into something
crippling.</p>

<p>Was that the strategy? Wear him down? Likely, though each phase
of each trap had been vicious enough.</p>

<p>He proceeded much more carefully, his emotions, his madness,
under tight rein. Vengeance could await achievement of the more
important triumph in the north. Once he had taken that keystone of
power he could requite the world a thousand times for its cruelties
and indignities.</p>

<p>There were more traps. Some were deadly and cunning. He did not
escape unscathed, alert as he was. His enemies did not rely upon
sorcery. They preferred mechanisms and psychological ploys, which
for him were more difficult to handle.</p>

<p>Not once did he see anyone other than the cavalrymen who dogged
him. He found the gates of the great port city Beryl standing open
and its streets empty. Nothing stirred but leaves and bits of
trash, tossed by winds from the sea. The hearthstones were cold and
even the rats had gone away. Not a pigeon or sparrow swooped
through the air.</p>

<p>The murmur of the wind seemed like the cold whisper of the
grave. In that desolation even he could feel alone and lonely in
spirit.</p>

<p>There were no ships in the harbor, no boats on the waterfront.
Not so much as a punt. The haze-distorted shape of a single black
quinquirireme hovered beyond the harbor light, well out to sea.
There was a statement here. He would not be allowed to cross the
sea. He was sure that whichever way he chose to walk along the
coast he would find the shores naked of boats.</p>

<p>He considered swimming. But that black ship would be waiting for
that. He was so massive that all his energy would have to go to
staying afloat. He would be vulnerable.</p>

<p>Moreover, salt water would leak through his protective spells
and gnaw at the grease, and then at the
clay&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>So there was little choice. He must do what they wanted him to
do and go around. He pictured the map, chose what seemed to be the
shorter way. He began running to the east.</p>

<p>The horsemen paced him the rest of that day. When dawn came they
were gone. After a few hours he became confident enough to increase
his pace. Curse them. He would do what they wanted and slaughter
them anyway.</p>

<p>The miles passed away as they had before he had entered the
empire.</p>

<p>As he ran he pondered the hidden purpose behind his having been
turned onto this extended course. He could not prize loose the
sense of it.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide47.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide49.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

