<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Dawn of Amber</title>
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="amber.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide4.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide6.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">THREE</h2>

<p>The pumpkin-shaped carriage looked even more ridiculous now, in
the greenish glow of Helda&rsquo;s still-burning house, at the end
of a street littered with dead hell-creatures and half a dozen dead
horses. As we neared, a little door in its side slowly swung open
and delicate steps glittering like spun crystal folded out. A small
oil lamp hung from the ceiling inside, and by its pale
illumination, I looked upon white velvet seats and cushions, a
small ivory-inlaid table, and a passenger&mdash;the woman I had
glimpsed earlier.</p>

<p>Without hesitation I unbuckled my swordbelt and slid into the
seat across from her, balancing my weapon across my knees. My
fellow passenger was strikingly beautiful, I found, with long dark
hair and a wide, almost familiar face. Thin nose, full lips, strong
chin&mdash;</p>

<p><em>Dworkin,</em> I realized. <em>She looks more than a little like him.</em>
Could she be his daughter?</p>

<p>She was dressed in a gold-and-red silk dress, with a round red
hat perched atop her head. Heavy gold rings set with large diamonds
and larger rubies, if I was any judge, covered her slender fingers.
If she had witnessed the battle outside, she showed no sign of
concern. She might have been out for a picnic in the country as far
as I could tell.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hello,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not now, Oberon,&rdquo; she said.</p>

<p>Ignoring me, she picked up what looked like a deck of Tarot
cards and nimbly shuffled them, then began turning them over one by
one on the table between us. Leaning forward, she studied intently
the pattern made by the first nine.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Anything?&rdquo; Dworkin asked from outside the carriage
door. I glanced over at him expectantly.</p>

<p>Freda said, &ldquo;We had best hurry. Time is running out
here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Time already ran out,&rdquo; he told her. Then he shut
the door, and from the way the carriage shook and swayed, I knew he
was climbing onto its roof. Probably to steer, I thought, thinking
of the bench up there, though the carriage hadn&rsquo;t needed any
such guidance before.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I guess it&rsquo;s just to be the two of us,&rdquo; I
said. I gave her a smile, but she didn&rsquo;t look up.</p>

<p>With a slight lurch, the carriage began to move forward. It took
me a moment to realize the wheels weren&rsquo;t clattering over the
cobblestones. From the smoothness of the ride, we might have been
gliding a foot above them. It had been a night of sufficient
wonders that I didn&rsquo;t even question it.</p>

<p>Instead, my attention focused on the woman opposite
me&mdash;Freda, as Dworkin had called her&mdash;who seemed intent
on ignoring my presence. With deft hands she gathered her cards,
shuffled them again, and began methodically turning them over once
more, this time forming a circle on the table. She didn&rsquo;t
seem the slightest bit interested in me, Kingstown, or the
hell-creatures we had just slain.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m Obere,&rdquo; I told her, &ldquo;not
Oberon.&rdquo; Maybe we simply needed an introduction to get off on
the right foot.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oberon is your proper name,&rdquo; she said, still
without looking up. &ldquo;Things must be done properly. I am
Freda.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Pleased to meet
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, you are, dear boy.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You see that in the cards?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, in you, brother Oberon.&rdquo; She smiled
enigmatically, eyes glistening behind long black lashes.</p>

<p>I could play that coy game, too.</p>

<p>Almost teasing, I said, &ldquo;What man wouldn&rsquo;t
be?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Indeed,&rdquo; she said solemnly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why are you here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Father does not like to travel alone, and I thought I
might be able to help, in my own small way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think he needs help from anyone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He does from me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Chuckling to myself, I leaned back. Clearly she thought a little
too highly of herself. Dworkin&rsquo;s daughter? Of that there
could be no doubt. Apparently hubris was a family trait. I found it
more annoying than endearing, however.</p>

<p>I glanced out the little window to my left. To my surprise, what
appeared to be daylight glimmered through the lace curtain. Had
dawn already broken? How long had we been riding in the carriage?
It should have been at least three or four more hours till first
light, by my reckoning.</p>

<p>I swept back the curtain and sure enough, the sun greeted me.
Low in the sky, it cast a reddish-gold glow across acres of neatly
plowed fields. It shouldn&rsquo;t have been there yet, my every
sense told me. Had I fallen asleep and not realized it?</p>

<p>No, I thought, shaking my head, that didn&rsquo;t seem possible.
I had been awake the whole time. We had just set off from Kingstown
a few moments ago&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;hadn&rsquo;t we?</p>

<p>I rubbed my eyes and, when I took my hand away, suddenly it was
night again. I couldn&rsquo;t see anything outside the carriage for
the blackness. Even the stars and moon were absent, hidden behind
clouds.</p>

<p>I let the curtains drop. Just my mind playing tricks on me, I
realized. I <em>had</em> been awake too long. Of course it
wasn&rsquo;t daytime yet. We couldn&rsquo;t be more than a mile or
two from Kingstown.</p>

<p>Leaning back, I noticed a faint light outside through the
curtain. Dawn? <em>Again?</em> Impossible!</p>

<p>Pushing back the lace curtains a second time, I stuck my head
close to the window&rsquo;s glass,</p>

<p>No, not dawn&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the clouds had parted,
and the moon shone down, full and bright, set against a glittering
diamond field of stars. By their glow, we sped down a coastal
highway, rolling faster than the fastest horse could gallop.</p>

<p>Faintly, I could see gentle dunes spotted with clumps of marsh
grass. Beyond the dunes lay a pale ribbon of beach where small
waves lapped.</p>

<p>Only&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;we should not have been here. The
carriage had taken the south road out of Kingstown, which led to
twenty miles of verdant farmlands and then fifty miles of ancient,
overgrown forests. This horseless carriage moved quickly, but the
nearest beach lay at least four days&rsquo; hard ride from
Kingstown. Over the years, I had surveyed the entire length of
Ilerium&rsquo;s coast&mdash;and in all that time, I had never seen
this beach before. I felt certain of it. So where were we? How had
we gotten here?</p>

<p>Magic, I thought uneasily. It seemed the only explanation.</p>

<p>I unlatched the window and pushed it open, breathing deeply of
the smells of salt and brine. Far off, an owl screeched. The waves
shushed against the sand.</p>

<p>It <em>was</em> real, not some dream or vision. We really
<em>were</em> on the coast now&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;a strange
coast not anywhere I knew in Ilerium.</p>

<p>The sky began to grow lighter. The highway turned inland, now
cutting through dense sun-bleached grasses whose pale heads rose
higher than our carriage. Luminous clouds roiled in the sky, and
lightning began to strike all around us. I saw flames shooting
through the grass and realized they were dry enough to quickly
catch fire. Unless the clouds let loose torrents of rain, and fast,
those fires would soon be burning out of control. I knew how fast
fires could spread, but somehow, riding in this carriage, I felt
perfectly safe. Dworkin&rsquo;s magic would speed us away.</p>

<p>Still the carriage rolled on, faster and faster, leaving the
fires behind. The daylight slowly increased, grayish and diffuse
now, revealing a drab countryside. Scrub trees replaced the tall
grass, dwarf oaks and oddly twisted pines. The carriage turned,
climbing sudden hills, then entered a forest of pines, which in
turn gave way to more farmlands.</p>

<p>Lightning continued to flash above. The clouds continued to boil
and seethe, and the air grew hot and sticky, but no rain fell. I
spotted a few small stone houses with thatched roofs among the
fields, but no sign of people or animals
anywhere&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;they had probably taken cover to
avoid the coming storm.</p>

<p>Peering ahead, I spotted a town of perhaps twenty or thirty low
stone buildings just now coming into view. As we rolled through,
slowing slightly, men and women dressed in black from head to toe
came rushing out from every doorway. All carried swords or knives
or axes. Their faces were drawn and pale, and their mouths opened
wide to show needlelike teeth and forked tongues.</p>

<p>A thrown axe whizzed by my head, hit the side of the carriage,
and bounced off&mdash;much too close for comfort. Gulping, I ducked
back inside, peering at them from behind the curtain and the
relative safety of the coach&rsquo;s interior. Although they
weren&rsquo;t hell-creatures, from their reception, they might as
well have been. Whether they wanted to eat us or sacrifice us to
some dark god, I couldn&rsquo;t begin to guess. I wouldn&rsquo;t
want to pass through here alone and unarmed, I decided with a
shiver. And what of Dworkin? If they hit him with an axe&mdash;</p>

<p>They gave chase for a few minutes, but Dworkin&rsquo;s carriage
outpaced them, and they, too, fell behind in the distance.</p>

<p>The trees around us had begun to grow taller, darker, and more
foreboding by the minute. I found myself leaning closer and closer
to the window to see. Streamers of a sickly yellow moss and tangled
masses of prickly vines draped every branch. Immense bats hung from
every available perch by the thousands, and as we passed, they
began to open little red eyes and flex leathery wings.</p>

<p>I liked this place less and less the farther we went. Where
could Dworkin possibly be taking us? I hadn&rsquo;t minded the
coast road, but though I considered myself a brave man, the town
and now this forest both sent shivers through me.</p>

<p>Suddenly the bats began to make screechy, chittering noises that
sounded altogether too much like kill- <em>kill-</em> kill. They
all seemed to be staring hungrily at us now, though none made any
move to attack.</p>

<p>I wasn&rsquo;t going to take any chances, though. This time I
closed the window and snapped the latch securely. No sense giving
them any path inside&mdash;though if they decided to attack Dworkin
where he rode on top, I didn&rsquo;t know how I&rsquo;d be able to
help him.</p>

<p>Slowly, I fingered the hilt of the knife in my belt, wondering
if I should draw it and trying at the same time not to alarm Freda.
No sense in worrying her unnecessarily, I thought.</p>

<p>I gave her what I hoped was an encouraging smile. She just
stared through me, apparently bored and uninterested.</p>

<p>My gaze kept drifting back to the window, though, and to the
dark ruby-eyed shapes perched out there. If anything, they bothered
me more than the townspeople. I could defend myself against
human&mdash;or almost human&mdash;attackers. But against swarms of
wild animals&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Father doesn&rsquo;t like to be followed,&rdquo; Freda
said suddenly, breaking the uncomfortable silence between us.
&ldquo;He has always been good at laying traps.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Traps?&rdquo; I managed to pull my gaze from the window
to regard her questioningly. &ldquo;What do you mean?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Anyone who tries to follow us will be attacked, of
course. That <em>is</em> his plan.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;By the bats,&rdquo; I said, realizing what she meant.
&ldquo;And the people in that town. And the burning
grasslands&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; She smiled a bit and smoothed her dress
around her, as though we had gone for a pleasant afternoon&rsquo;s
ride or a picnic in the country. &ldquo;Father is awfully clever
that way. I never could have thought up those bats.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;how&mdash;&rdquo; I
frowned, puzzled. Thought them up? She made it sound like he had
<em>created</em> them, somehow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He is a true master at manipulating Shadows,&rdquo; she
said with a little shrug. &ldquo;Far better than me. I like to pick
a place and stay there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;As long as it&rsquo;s safe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course.&rdquo;</p>

<p>More riddles, I grumbled to myself. Shadows? What was she
talking about? She was Dworkin&rsquo;s daughter, all right, and I
was sick of their games. Every time one of them said anything to
me, it only made my confusion worse.</p>

<p>My attention drifted to the table between us. Apparently she had
finished with her Tarot cards; the whole deck sat neatly stacked
before her now. I wondered what she had seen in our future. Briefly
I considered asking her, but then I thought better of it. Somehow,
I didn&rsquo;t think the answers would make much sense to me. And I
had never put much faith in fortune-telling.</p>

<p>I turned my attention back to the window. Without warning, the
carriage burst into a clearing, and dazzling noontime sun caught me
full in the face. I had to shield my eyes and squint to see, and
even so, bright spots drifted before my eyes.</p>

<p>A desert&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;we were riding through a
desert of red sand and red rocks now. Heat shimmered in waves, and
though I could feel a scorching heat on my face, I felt a chill
inside.</p>

<p>Magic <em>again.</em> The carriage was ensorcelled, taking us on
a nightmare journey where neither day nor night nor landscape held
any true form or meaning. Even so, knowing it couldn&rsquo;t
possibly be real, as my eyes grew accustomed to the light I found I
could not look away.</p>

<p>We turned, crossed a bridge of stone, and entered another
forest, this one filled with redwoods of immense proportion, their
trunks so big around that it would have taken a dozen men with arms
stretched fingertip to fingertip to surround one. High up among the
leaves, I glimpsed creatures the size and shape of men leaping from
branch to branch. Male and female alike wore skirts of woven grass
and carried short wooden clubs hooked to small belts. When they
spotted us, they began to shriek and point.</p>

<p>The sky darkened without warning; hailstones the size of peas
began to fall, followed by gusts of wind strong enough to shake the
carriage. Behind us, I heard a huge grinding, tearing sound like
nothing I had ever heard before, and a jolt of fear went through
me.</p>

<p>Opening the window, I stuck my head out and looked back to see
what was happening. A cold, gale-strong wind whipped my hair, and I
had to squint to see, but the sight filled me with a terrible
awe.</p>

<p>Half a dozen tornadoes writhed and danced through the redwood
forest behind us. Trees by the hundreds were falling before the
winds, huge knots of root tearing loose from the ground, immense
trunks slamming down in an impenetrable maze of wood. I saw
hundreds of the manlike creatures sucked up into the black swirling
funnels where, still screaming, they vanished.</p>

<p>The road would be impossible to follow on horseback. It had to
be another trap for our pursuers, if they made it around the fires,
through the townspeople, and past the bats. But how had Dworkin
known to come here? How had he known the trees would fall? They
must have been standing for centuries to have grown so huge. For us
to pass just as tornadoes blew them over seemed unlikely, to say
the least.</p>

<p>No, I thought, Dworkin hadn&rsquo;t <em>known</em> the trees
would fall, I realized with a growing sense of helplessness. He had
<em>made</em> them fall. It was the only possible explanation. With
such powers as he now commanded, he could have ruled Ilerium. How,
in all our years together, had I never even suspected them?</p>

<p>I felt sorry for the tree creatures in that forest who had died
because of us, unwittingly giving their lives and homes to protect
our passage.</p>

<p>The winds began to drop when we descended into a small valley.
Fog came up suddenly, and a dense, dismal gray cloaked the windows
for a time. Though I <em>knew</em> cliffs stood to either side,
somewhere just out of sight, I thought once or twice I heard the
sound of gently lapping waves.</p>

<p>I pulled my head in and glanced at Freda, who looked as serene
as a cat with a bird in its mouth. I couldn&rsquo;t understand her
calm. This journey&mdash;and it wasn&rsquo;t over
yet!&mdash;already had me feeling battle-worn and
weary&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;yet too ill at ease to relax.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How much longer?&rdquo; I asked her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It depends on Father. He is not taking the fastest or
most direct route to Juniper, after all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Juniper? Was that our destination?</p>

<p>I&rsquo;d never heard of it&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;and from
the name it could have been anything, from castle keep to sprawling
kingdom. She expected me to know the name, I thought, from the way
she said it, so I simply smiled like I knew what she meant. Perhaps
she&rsquo;d tell me more if she thought I already knew about this
Juniper.</p>

<p>Instead of talking to me, though, she settled farther back in
her seat and folded her hands in her lap, volunteering nothing.</p>

<p>I did notice that dawn had just broken outside again, burning
off the fog with supernatural speed.</p>

<p>After that, everything kept changing, but subtly, never quite
while you were looking at it. The sky turned greenish, then
yellow-green, then back to blue. Clouds came and vanished. Forests
rose and fell to grassland, which gave way to farmland and then
back to forests again. Dawn broke half a dozen times.</p>

<p>I had never even heard of magic like this before, which bent
time and place to a driver&rsquo;s will, and my estimation of
Dworkin&mdash;or the people he worked for&mdash;grew steadily
greater, if that was possible. Whatever wizards had created his
crystal-weapon and this carriage clearly had the power to save
Ilerium from hell-creatures.</p>

<p>My job would be winning them over to King Elnar&rsquo;s
cause.</p>

<p>It seemed our only hope.</p>

<p>Finally, after what felt like hours of travel, we entered a land
of rolling green hills. The highway we traveled&mdash;at times
paved with yellow bricks but for the moment deep ruts with grass in
between&mdash;curved gently ahead. Brightly plumed birds flitted
among the scattered bushes and trees, their cheerful songs
strangely normal after all we had been through. Overhead, high
white clouds streaked the deep, perfect blue of the sky,</p>

<p>&ldquo;We are close to Juniper now,&rdquo; I heard Freda
say.</p>

<p>I glanced at her. &ldquo;You recognize the scenery?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes. A few more hours and we should be there.&rdquo; Then
a dozen horsemen dressed in silvered armor fell in around the
carriage.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide4.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide6.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

