<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide55.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide57.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">54</h2>

<p>The Old Man did not seem surprised to hear that Soulcatcher
might be up to something with Howler. &ldquo;I wasn&rsquo;t
counting on it but it seemed like a possibility,&rdquo; he said.
&ldquo;They&rsquo;ve worked together for ages. We may have
Longshadow by the nuts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Somebody better have him by something if he controls the
Shadowgate. The other thing is&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;
How could I put it?</p>

<p>&ldquo;Other thing?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Smoke is showing signs of personality. I think.&rdquo; I
told him what had happened.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Damn! We don&rsquo;t want him waking up now.&rdquo; He
thought for a while. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t see how we can stop it if
it&rsquo;s happening.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Better see One-Eye about that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Send him over. Wait! Don&rsquo;t leave. Tell me about the
part of the fortress where Singh and the girl hide out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It turned out this was more than a passing interest. He wanted
maps.</p>

<p>I had that part of the place charted already. All I had to do
was get the drawings from One-Eye&rsquo;s dugout. I brought the
little wizard along. He kept grumbling about being wakened in the
middle of the night. Once the Old Man had what he needed I shut the
curtain to Smoke&rsquo;s alcove and went off to bed, leaving them
to their schemes.</p>

<p>I did not escape Kina just by getting back to my flesh. She was
waiting in my dreams. No sooner did I lie down than I found myself
in the place of bones. Sahra was waiting.</p>

<p>I had no trouble recalling that she was an illusion. She looked
nothing like the Sahra who lived so miserably at the Vinh Gao Ghang
temple. This one was too young, too unworn, despite her pallor and
the neck crook characteristic of a Deceiver victim.</p>

<p>I had begun to suspect that Kina was slow and unimaginative,
although extremely powerful. How had she gotten the angle on
Lady?</p>

<p>It was true Lady had not known what she was up against. And
ignorance is a chink in the armor a knowledgeable enemy can exploit
at will. And, of course, Kina was Queen of the Deceivers.</p>

<p>It no longer mattered how Kina had fooled Lady. What mattered
now was that she did not fool me.</p>

<p>That thought left me unable to pretend that I was being
deceived. I was not kind to the false Sahra.</p>

<p>Her flesh corrupted and melted right before me. The perfume of
Kina, which was the stink of dead bodies, assailed me. A shadow in
the grey distance coagulated into a four armed black dancer a
hundred feet tall whose pounding feet threw up clouds of bone dust
as she stamped and whirled. Her fangs dripped venom. Her eyes
burned like dark coals. Her jewelry of bones clattered and rattled.
Her breath was the breath of disease.</p>

<p>The Daughter of Night rode upon her shoulder like a small second
head. She was excited as a child making her first trip to the
county fair.</p>

<p>Kina was not pleased with Murgen.</p>

<p>Armbones lifted out of the litter, grasping with fleshless
fingers. Sahra&rsquo;s skeleton stumbled toward me. I willed myself
away and, behold!, I drifted up and backward a few feet. I willed
myself again and moved again, not far, amazed that I had control
and bewildered because I had not tried to exercise it before.</p>

<p>Kina stopped dancing and stomped toward me. Her fangs grew
longer. Her six breasts dripped poison. She put on another pair of
arms. The Daughter of Night bounced excitedly on her shoulder,
immune to the lure of gravity.</p>

<p>I willed myself away.</p>

<p>I had control but that was not my world. I could not run away
faster than the world&rsquo;s creator. A great gleaming, taloned
black hand swooped down. I dodged. A claw brushed me. I spun ass
over appetite into darkness.</p>

<p>And I was in the cavern filled with old men caught in spiderwebs
of ice. I drifted along past faces I not only knew I knew, I
remembered the names that went with them.</p>

<p>I felt a panic like what you would feel if you were closed up in
a small place in the dark. A buried-alive panic. I did not let it
manage me. I tried, again, to manage myself and found I could move
along the cavern if I willed it, like I did when I was walking with
Smoke. I moved a whole lot slower here, though. I tried moving out
through the walls. Like the real world, and unlike riding Smoke, I
was constrained pretty much by physical rules. My only way out of
the cavern would be forward or back. Which did not make much sense
if I was dreaming and had gotten in there without following any
complicated route.</p>

<p>Was it possible physical laws operated only when I was in
control? Could it be that I was unable to walk through walls
because I never learned the knack in daily life?</p>

<p>I decided to go forward, up the slope of the cavern floor,
because that is what I always did in the fragments of dream I
remembered. As I did so I became aware of an inchoate anger growing
behind me, as of something hunting that was frustrated. I did my
best to speed up.</p>

<p>There was more in those ice caves than old men. There were more
old men, none of them known to me. There were treasures. There was
junk, like everything that ever fell down a crack ended up there.
There were books.</p>

<p>Three huge tomes bound in worn, cracked dark leather rested on a
large, long stone lectern, as though waiting for three speakers to
step up and read at the same time. The first book was open to a
page three-quarters of the way through. I caught only a glimpse of
the page before some compelling force pushed me away. It was
identical to the page the Daughter of Night had been transcribing
when Narayan Singh interrupted her so they could go visit
Soulcatcher. The calligraphy was superior, more colorful and
ornate, but the child had missed nothing important, I was sure.</p>

<p>The anger behind me grew stronger. It seemed to be looking for a
focus. I learned early never to volunteer. I moved on as fast as my
will would carry me, wondering what sort of nightmare this was. Its
most bizarre and fantastic elements were most real. Maybe it was a
mirror of the waking world.</p>

<p>The anger kept gaining although I saw nothing when I looked
back. It did not catch me. I do not think. But without actually
passing through anything suddenly I was in another place. There was
a full bowl of stars overhead but not even a sliver of moon. I was
high in the air. I could distinguish no features on the ground
below.</p>

<p>It was like ghostwalking without the ghost. Only I could not
just tell Smoke where to go and get there almost instantly. I could
move, it seemed, though it was hard to
tell&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I had to have landmarks, I
realized. I pushed back my panic.</p>

<p>I thought. I did have information. I knew up and down. I had a
full field of stars overhead, so numerous they almost overwhelmed
the outstanding constellations normally used for navigation.
Trouble was, I had not studied the southern skies closely. Any
astronomical navigation I did would be only slightly better than a
guess.</p>

<p>I caught a faint whiff of corrupt flesh. That whipstroke got me
moving toward a cluster of stars I vaguely recalled hanging close
to the northern horizon during the spring. There were three of them
in a flat triangle, all bright. The star at the peak of the
triangle waxed and waned. Many legends attended it, most of them
unpleasant. I was not intimate with them.</p>

<p>From that altitude I could see a fourth star in the
constellation, equally bright, below the other three. I recalled
seeing that formation when the Company was still far north of
Taglios.</p>

<p>How high was I? Or was I somewhere far north of Ki-aulune?</p>

<p>I stopped moving forward and slanted down toward the earth. I
found myself over a region where agriculture was extremely orderly,
communal, making the most efficient use of man, animal and
equipment, various operations having been laid out in a circle
around a central manor with hamlets and single dwellings strung out
along the spokes of wheels. Preparations for spring planting had
begun although there were no workers in the fields at night.</p>

<p>I passed over circle after circle. The ground between had been
left wild. I suppose it supported game and provided timber and
charcoal and firewood.</p>

<p>I had heard of the region. It was in the Shadowlands west of
Kiaulune. Longshadow had been experimenting with agricultural
efficiencies in an effort to produce more with fewer workers so he
could free up manpower to work construction on Overlook and serve
in his armies.</p>

<p>I was not all that far from my own gang.</p>

<p>I worked my way eastward. After what seemed like hours I spied
the glow from fires burning in the ruins of Kiaulune. I found my
own part of our encampment, then my own shelter. I was comfortable
enough with my condition to do a little experimenting now.</p>

<p>It took only moments to learn that while I could not will myself
through a wall, or even the blankets One-Eye had hung for a
doorway, or the side of a tent, I could slide my point of view
through a crack or hole too small for a mouse or snake.</p>

<p>I could not go back or forth in time. I was confined to the now
of my sleeping flesh.</p>

<p>I had control of the dream. It seemed real. What I saw of the
camp was exactly what the camp should have been like while I was
sleeping. My imagination was not good enough to make up a whole
dream world that mimicked the real world exactly. A big question
occurred.</p>

<p>Would I be able to do this again? Would getting here always be
outside my control, the way it had been when I kept tumbling off
the wall of today into the horrors of Dejagore?</p>

<p>If this was going to be one-time I had better use it for all it
was worth.</p>

<p>I snaked back out into a cold I did not feel. For a second I
thought about heading for the plain but just the thought stirred up
an instant, powerful revulsion. Maybe later.</p>

<p>I went toward the mountains instead.</p>

<p>Spying on Soulcatcher would do. Up close. Without disturbing the
crows, I discovered. They remained asleep. So did their
mistress.</p>

<p>Her company had left. I was not going to find out a damned
thing.</p>

<p>I could go over to Overlook and see what everybody was
doing&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I saw the faintest hint of light
in the east. Dawn was on its way. And I began to feel a compulsion
to head for the safety of my flesh. That drive grew stronger as the
light did the same.</p>

<p>I headed for my body wondering if I was a dreaming vampire
now.</p>

<p>Mother Gota was awake already. Though Soulcatcher had not been
able, Ky Gota seemed to sense me somehow. She turned when I
weaseled inside, looked almost directly at me, frowned when she saw
nothing, then shuddered the way you do when a chill runs down your
spine.</p>

<p>She went back to her cooking. I noted that she was preparing
more food than she, Thai Dei and I could possibly eat all day. I
supposed she planned to take some out to Uncle Doj.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide55.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide57.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

