<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>The Silver Spike</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="spike.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide21.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide23.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">XXI</h2>

<p>The old man sat quietly. When he moved at all he did so slowly
and carefully. His status was ambiguous. He had chased these people
across a continent, damned near killing himself, and for what?</p>

<p>For nothing, that&rsquo;s what. For nothing.</p>

<p>They were lunatics. They ought to be locked up for their own
protection.</p>

<p>The woman watched him from about twenty feet to his left. She
was a blue-eyed, stringy-haired blonde about five feet six inches
tall, in her middle twenties. She had a square jaw, a too broad,
lumpy bottom, and a goofy manner that made you wonder if anybody
was home behind those watery eyes. And for all that, there was
something strongly sensual there.</p>

<p>She was deaf and mute. She could communicate only via sign
language.</p>

<p>She was in charge. She was Darling, the White Rose, the one who
had put an end to the Lady&rsquo;s dark dominion.</p>

<p>How the hell could that be? It didn&rsquo;t add up.</p>

<p>Off to his right was a man who watched him with the warmth of a
snake. He was tall, lean, dusky, hard as a stone with less sense of
humor. These days he dressed in black, which had to be a statement
of some sort, but who could tell what? He would not talk. He flat
refused. Which is why they called him Silent.</p>

<p>He was a wizard himself. The tools of his trade lay scattered
around him. As though he expected their unwilling guest to try
something.</p>

<p>Silent&rsquo;s eyes were as black as jet, hard as diamonds, and
friendly as death.</p>

<p>Damn it! A man made one mistake and four hundred years later
they still wouldn&rsquo;t let him live it down.</p>

<p>There were three more of them around somewhere, brothers with
the surname Torque who seemed to have no given names. They went by
absurdities like Paddlefoot, Donkey Dick, and Brother Bear, except
that Donkey Dick became Stubby when Darling was in listening
distance, even though she couldn&rsquo;t hear.</p>

<p>All four men worshiped her. And it was obvious to everyone but
her that the one called Silent entertained romantic ambitions.
Lunatics. Every single one.</p>

<p>Something behind him yelled, &ldquo;Seth Chalk! What treachery
are you up to now?&rdquo; and exploded in giggles.</p>

<p>Wearily, for the thousandth time, he replied, &ldquo;Call me
Bomanz. I haven&rsquo;t used Seth Chalk since I was a boy.&rdquo;
He did not look around.</p>

<p>It had been a long, long time since he had been Seth Chalk. At
least a hundred fifty years. He had no exact count. It was a year
since he had escaped the thrall of a sorcery that had held him in
stasis most of that time. He knew the intervening years of strife
and horror&mdash;the years of the rise and growth of the
Lady&rsquo;s empire&mdash;only by repute, after the fact.</p>

<p>He, Bomanz or Seth Chalk, was a living artifact from before the
fact. A fool who had had no business surviving it, who wanted to
use these last unexpected gift years to expiate the guilt that was
his for his part in the awakening and release of the ancient
evil.</p>

<p>These idiots were not ready to believe that, no matter that
he&rsquo;d damned near gotten himself killed keeping that dragon
off them during the big final throat cutting in the Barrowland last
winter.</p>

<p>Damned fools. He had done all the damage he could do in one
lifetime.</p>

<p>The three brothers came from somewhere up forward, joined the
watch. So it was not one of them who had shouted. But Bomanz knew
that. Two of the three could not speak any language he understood.
The third managed Forsberger so brokenly it was not worth his
trouble to try.</p>

<p>The fool who could understand a little of Bomanz&rsquo;s
antiquated Forsberger could not sign. Of course. So any
communication not heard directly by Silent or lip-read by Darling
got garbled and lost.</p>

<p>Only the stones communicated like regular people.</p>

<p>He did not like talking to rocks. There was something perverse
about holding converse with rocks.</p>

<p>The trouble with being here was that the human beings, though
lunatics, were the sanest, most believable part of the
furnishings.</p>

<p>For the first time in his life, if he wanted to build cloud
castles he had to go look down.</p>

<p>They had press-ganged him at that camp in the Windy Country. He
was on the back of one of those fabulous monsters out of the Plain
of Fear, a windwhale. The beast was a thousand feet long and nearly
two hundred wide. From below it looked like a cross between a
man-o&rsquo;-war jellyfish and the world&rsquo;s biggest shark.
From up top where Bomanz was, the broad flat back looked like
something from an opium smoker&rsquo;s pipe dream. Like the
imaginary forests that might grow in those vast caverns said to lie
miles beneath the surface of the earth.</p>

<p>This forest was haunted by enough weird creatures to populate
anyone&rsquo;s fancy nightmare. A whole zoo. And all sentient.</p>

<p>The windwhale was going somewhere in a hurry but was not getting
there fast. There had been head winds all the way. And every so
often the monster had to go down and tear up a couple hundred acres
to take the edge off its hunger.</p>

<p>The damned thing stank like seven zoos.</p>

<p>A couple weird characters had singled him out for relentless
harassment. One was a little rock monkey, mostly tail, no bigger
than a chipmunk. It had a high, squeaky, nagging voice that made
him remember his long-dead wife, though he never understood a word
it said.</p>

<p>There was a shy centauroid creature put together backward, with
the humanlike part in the rear. That part of her was disturbingly
attractive. She seemed intrigued by him. He kept catching glimpses
of her watching him from among the copses of uncertain organs that
bewhiskered the windwhale&rsquo;s back.</p>

<p>Worst, there was a lone talking buzzard who had a smattering of
Forsberger and a wiseguy mouth. Bomanz could not get away from the
bird, who, if he had been human, would have hung out in taverns
masquerading as the world&rsquo;s foremost authority, armed with an
uninformed and ready opinion on every conceivable subject. His
cheerful bigotry and who-cares ignorance drove the old man&rsquo;s
temper to its limit.</p>

<p>Things called mantas, that looked like sable flying versions of
the rays of tropical seas, symbiotes of the windwhales, with
wingspans of thirty to fifty feet, were the most dramatic and
numerous of his nonhuman companions. Though they looked like fish,
they seemed to be mammals. They lived their whole lives on the
windwhale&rsquo;s back. They were ill-tempered and dangerous and
they bitterly resented having to share their territory with lesser
life-forms. Only the will of their god contained their spite.</p>

<p>There were dozens more creatures equally remarkable, each more
absurd than the last, but they were more shy of humans and stayed
out of the way.</p>

<p>Discounting the mantas, the most numerous and pestiferous tribe
were the talking stones.</p>

<p>Like most people Bomanz had heard tales of the deadly talking
menhirs of the Plain of Fear. The reality seemed as gruesome as the
stories. They were as shy as an avalanche and deadly pranksters.
They were responsible for the Plain&rsquo;s deadly reputation. Near
as Bomanz could tell, what everyone else considered murderous
wickedness they considered practical jokery.</p>

<p>What could be more hilarious than a traveler who, following
false directions, stumbled into a lava pit or had his mount
snatched out from under him by a giant sand lion?</p>

<p>The stones, in the form of menhirs as much as eighteen feet
tall, were the stuff of a thousand stories, hardly a one pleasant.
But the seeing and hearing and having to deal with was an
experience that made the stories pall&mdash;though the stones were
on their best behavior now.</p>

<p>They were under constraint, too.</p>

<p>The stones had no language difficulties. Happily, many were a
laconic sort. But when they did go to talking their speech was
sour, acidic, caustic. The lot were verbal vandals. So how the hell
come they were the ones their god had made his diplomatic
corps?</p>

<p>It was no wonder the Plain of Fear was a wide-open madhouse. The
tree god running it was a twenty-four-karat lunatic.</p>

<p>The stones were gray brown, mostly, without visible orifices or
organs. Most were as shaggy with mosses and lichens and bugs as any
normal boulder that lay around keeping its mouth shut. They
intimidated the hell out of Bomanz, who liked to pretend that he
was not scared of any damned thing.</p>

<p>There were moments when he came close to blasting them into
talking gravel.</p>

<p>Weird damned creatures!</p>

<p>Every hundred miles the windwhale dropped till its belly
dragged. Members of every species, including the Torque brothers,
would start singing a merry &ldquo;Heigh-ho!&rdquo; work song and
would converge on whichever menhir had made itself most obnoxious
recently. Hup-hup, over the side it would go, to the accompaniment
of dire threats and foul curses. Those stones that pretended to
senses of humor would yodel fearfully all the way to the
ground.</p>

<p>Damnfool crazies.</p>

<p>No matter how the bleeding rocks fell, they always landed
upright, catlike.</p>

<p>The show scared the crap out of the rare peasant unlucky enough
to witness it.</p>

<p>The stones were the Plains creatures&rsquo; and tree god&rsquo;s
communications lifeline. They spoke to one another mind to
mind&mdash;though Bomanz was not about to give them credit for true
sentience. No one would tell him squat, but he suspected Old Father
Tree himself was running this operation&mdash;whatever this
operation was&mdash;from the nether end.</p>

<p>One of those little things he found disconcerting was the fact
that no matter how many stones went over the side, the menhir
population never diminished. In fact, some of the same old stones
turned up back aboard.</p>

<p>Goddamned insanity.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey, Seth Chalk, you sour old fart, you figure out how to
screw us over yet? Gawh!&rdquo;</p>

<p>The talking buzzard had come. Bomanz replied with a gentle,
tricky gesture, consisting of wrapping his hand around the
bird&rsquo;s neck. &ldquo;Just you personally, carrion
breath.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Eyes watched. Nobody moved. Nobody took it seriously. The Torque
brothers whooped it up. &ldquo;Way to go, old man!&rdquo;
Paddlefoot gobbled in his outlandish lingo. &ldquo;Tie his goofy
neck in a knot.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Morons!&rdquo; Bomanz muttered. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
surrounded by morons. At the mercy of cretins.&rdquo; Louder.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to tie your neck in a knot and braid your
toes if you don&rsquo;t lay off the Seth Chalk and start calling me
Bomanz.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He turned loose.</p>

<p>The buzzard flapped off squawking, &ldquo;Chalk&rsquo;s on a
rampage! Beware! Beware! Chalk&rsquo;s gone berserk.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, go to hell. Marooned with lunatics.&rdquo;</p>

<p>General laughter and foolery of a sort he had not seen since his
student days. But Darling and Silent neither laughed nor stopped
watching him. What the hell did he have to do to make them
understand that he was on their side?</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hah!&rdquo; It hit him out of the blue. An epiphany. They
did not distrust him because it was he whose bumbling had wakened
the old evils and loosed them to walk the earth for another dark
century. He had done his part in the rectification. No. They knew
what had moved his researches in the first place. His quest for
tools with which to gain power. His fathomless infatuation with the
Lady,&nbsp; which had so distracted him he had made the mistakes
that had allowed her to break her bonds.</p>

<p>They might believe he had been broken of his hunger for power,
but would they ever believe he was free of his thing for that dark
woman? How could he convince them when he had yet to convince
himself? She had been a deadly candle to many a man&rsquo;s moth
and the flame did not lose its attraction by being out of sight or
out of reach.</p>

<p>He grunted, prized himself off his butt. His legs were stiff. He
had been seated a long time. Darling and Silent watched him amble
past a stand of something that looked like pink ferns ten feet
tall. Little eyes peeped out warily. The ferns were some sort of
organ. The mantas used them for an infant creche.</p>

<p>He went as far as his acrophobia let him. It was the first he
had looked overboard in a week.</p>

<p>Last time they had been over water. He had been able to see
nothing but haziness and blue all the way to undefined
horizons.</p>

<p>The air was clearer today. The view was very nearly
monochromatic again, but this time brown. Just a few hints of green
flecked it. Way, way ahead there was something that looked like it
might be smoke from a big fire.</p>

<p>They had to be two miles high. There was not a cloud in the
sky.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Soon you will have your chance to prove yourself, Seth
Chalk.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He glanced back. A menhir stood four feet behind him. It had not
been there a moment before. They were that way, coming and going
without sound or warning. This one was a little more gray and
mica-flecked than most. It had a scar down its face side six inches
wide and seven feet long where something had scraped through lichen
and weathered surface stone. Bomanz did not understand
talking-stone civilization. They had no obvious hierarchy, yet this
one generally spoke for them when there was official speaking to be
done.</p>

<p>&ldquo;How so?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you not feel it, wizard?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I feel a lot of things, rock. What I feel most of all is
grumpy about the way you all have been doing me. What am I supposed
to feel?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The mad psychic stink of the thing that you sensed
escaping the Barrowland. From Oar. It is no farther away
now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The talking stones spoke in a dead monotone, usually, yet Bomanz
sensed the taint of suspicion that lay in the menhir&rsquo;s mind.
If he could tell the old evil was stirring from as far as Oar, when
it was weak, how was it that he could not sense it now, when it was
so much stronger?</p>

<p>How was it that he, too, was alive when he was supposed to be
dead?</p>

<p>Did he know about the resurrection of the shadow because it had
been one with his own? Had they conspired together and come out of
the unhallowed earth of the Barrowland together? Was he a slave of
that old darkness?</p>

<p>&ldquo;It was not that that I sensed,&rdquo; Bomanz said.
&ldquo;I heard the scream of one of the old fetish alarms being
tripped when something moved that should not have. That isn&rsquo;t
the same thing at all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The stone stood silent for a moment. &ldquo;Perhaps not.
Nevertheless, we are upon the thing. In hours, or a day or two, as
the winds decide, the battle will be joined. Your fate may be
determined.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Bomanz snorted. &ldquo;A rock with a sense for the dramatic.
It&rsquo;s absurd. You really expect me to fight that
thing?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If it&rsquo;s what I think it
is&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is the thing called the Limper. And the thing known as
Toadkiller Dog. Both are handicapped.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Bomanz sneered and snorted. &ldquo;I&rsquo;d call being without
a body something more than a handicap.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is not weak, this thing. That smoke rises from a city
still burning three days after its departure. It has become the
disciple of death. Killing and destruction are all it knows. The
tree has decreed that it be stopped.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Right. Why? And why us?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why? Because if it continues amok its course will someday
bring it to the Plain. Why us? Because there is no one else. All
who had any great power were consumed in the struggle in the
Barrowland except thee and we. And, most of all, we do it because
the god has commanded it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Bomanz muttered and grumbled under his breath.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Prepare yourself, wizard. The hour comes. If you are
innocent in our eyes you must be guilty in his.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Of course. There could be no ground in the middle. Not for him.
He did not have the strength to hold it. Never had had, if the
truth be known, though he had deluded himself in the years of his
quest for knowledge about those who had been enchained by the
ancients.</p>

<p>Did he know remorse for the horror brought on by his rumblings?
Some. Not as much as he thought he should. He told himself that
because of his intercession at the penultimate moment, his
self-sacrifice, the outbreak of darkness had been far gentler than
it could have been. Without him the night might have lasted
forever.</p>

<p>The old man ambled away from the stone, rapt in his own
thoughts. He did not notice the stone turning jerkily, keeping its
scarred face toward him. The menhirs never moved while being
watched by human eyes. How they knew they were being watched no one
knew.</p>

<p>Bomanz&rsquo;s meander took him to the aft end of the windwhale.
Small rustlings accompanied him. Chaperones. If he noticed he
ignored them. They had been with him always.</p>

<p>He settled upon a soft, unprotesting lump of whale flesh about
chair height. It made comfortable sitting. But he knew he would not
be staying long. The windwhale was especially fetid here.</p>

<p>For the hundredth time he contemplated escape. All he had to do
was jump and use a levitator spell to soften his fall. That was
well within his competence. But not within the compass of his
courage.</p>

<p>His fear of heights was not totally debilitating. Should he
fall, he would retain enough self-possession to save himself. But
there was no way he could bring himself to take the plunge
voluntarily.</p>

<p>Resigned, he looked back the way he had come. Home, such as it
was and had been, lay a thousand miles away. Maybe a lot farther.
They were passing over lands of which he had never heard, where all
who saw it marveled at the great shape in the sky and had no idea
what it was.</p>

<p>There was no guarantee he would step into friendly lands if he
did go over the side. In fact, the terrain below looked actively
hostile.</p>

<p>Hell with it. He had gotten himself into this. He would ride it
out.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hunh!&rdquo;</p>

<p>He was an old man but his eyes were plenty sharp.</p>

<p>The high, clean air allowed him to see a long way. And up north,
at the edge of discernment when he looked at them a fraction of a
point off directly, were two dots at an altitude even higher than
that of the windwhale. To be visible at all at that distance they
had to be the size of windwhales.</p>

<p>Bomanz snorted.</p>

<p>This monster was the vanguard of a parade.</p>

<p>He chuckled then. There were rustles nearby, the natives
disturbed by his amusement. He chuckled again and rose. This time
he strolled the length of the windwhale before he alighted again,
as far forward as he dared go.</p>

<p>The smoke was much nearer. It rose higher than the windwhale. He
saw hints of the fires that fed the column, which had begun to
develop a bend in its trunk down lower. Grim. Maybe the rock was
right. Something had to be done.</p>

<p>This was the dozenth such city, though the first they had come
to still in its death throes. The progress of the insanity was an
arrow pointing due south, a craziness that could make sense only to
the crazy himself.</p>

<p>The windwhale began rumbling with internal flatulences. The
horizon tilted, rose. Mantas piped and squealed behind Bomanz. He
got a death grip on his seat.</p>

<p>The monster was headed down.</p>

<p>Why? It was not time to drop a menhir. It was not feeding
time.</p>

<p>Mantas hurtled past in pairs and squadrons, spade-headed darts
spreading across the sky, headed toward the city and its coronet of
circling carrion birds.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There is a good wind running a mile below us,
wizard.&rdquo; Bomanz glanced back. His scar-faced stone friend.
&ldquo;If it holds we will overtake the destroyer shortly after
nightfall. You have only that long to prepare.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Bomanz glanced around again. The stone was gone. But he was not
alone. Darling and Silent had come to stare at the stricken city.
The dark man&rsquo;s face was impassive but Darling&rsquo;s was a
study in empathetic agony. That touched the soft-headed,
softhearted side of the old man. He faced her, said, &ldquo;We will
put an end to the pain, child.&rdquo; He spoke carefully so she
could read his lips.</p>

<p>She looked at Silent. Silent looked at her. Their fingers flew
in the speech of the deaf. Bomanz caught part of the exchange. He
was not pleased.</p>

<p>They were discussing him and Silent&rsquo;s remarks were not
complimentary.</p>

<p>Bomanz cursed and spat. That bastard had it in for him for no
damned reason.</p>

<p>The manias decimated the carrion birds, used the up-draft from
the fires to soar high, then returned to the windwhale carrying a
feast for their young. They settled down to nap.</p>

<p>But there was no real relaxation for anyone. The windwhale had
dropped till it was only half a mile high. It passed the city,
scudding along at twenty miles an hour. Soon the monster had to
climb back into less vigorous air so as not to catch up before
nightfall.</p>

<p>The scar-face stone returned when Bomanz was not looking. When
he did notice it, he said, &ldquo;I feel it now, rock. It reeks of
corruption. And I still have no idea what I could do to hurt
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Worry not. There is a new decree from the god. You are
not to reveal yourself except in extreme circumstance.
Our attack will be exploratory, experimental, and admonitory
only.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What the hell? Why? Go for the kill, I say. Hit him with
everything the one time he don&rsquo;t know we&rsquo;re coming.
We&rsquo;ll never get a better shot.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The god has spoken.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Bomanz argued. The god won.</p>

<p>The windwhale began shedding altitude at dusk. Soon after
nightfall Bomanz spied the campfires of an army ahead. A pair of
mantas took to the air to scout. They returned, reported whatever
they reported. The windwhale slanted down toward the encampment,
cutting a course that would rip through its heart.</p>

<p>Mantas poured off the windwhale&rsquo;s back, scrambled around
and over one another in a search for updrafts.</p>

<p>Bomanz felt the old terror moving closer. It was restless but
did not seem alert.</p>

<p>The ground came up and up. Bomanz clung to his seat and awaited
certain impact, now unconcerned by the insult inplicit in the fact
that a dozen menhirs had moved into position around him and
Darling, and her thugs were spread out ready for trouble.</p>

<p>The windwhale leveled out. Campfires slid out of sight beneath
it. The screaming down there was almost inaudible because of the
creak and rumble and intervening bulk of the giant of the sky.
Bomanz felt the shock of the old evil, caught completely
unprepared. It went into a pure black rage.</p>

<p>Just as it began to respond mantas swooped in from every
direction. They cut the heart out of the night with the glare of
the lightnings they discharged from the store in their flesh. Bolts
stabbed around by the hundred, keeping the old horror so busy
guarding himself he had no chance to counterattack.</p>

<p>The windwhale dumped tons of ballast and began a slow ascent,
struggling to gain altitude against the weight of plunder.</p>

<p>Bomanz could not see the monster&rsquo;s underside and was glad.
Its tentacles would be grasping men and animals and anything else
it considered edible. It was an intelligent beast but it did not
exempt other intelligences from its food supply if they were its
enemies.</p>

<p>Many of the Plain races ate their enemies.</p>

<p>Bomanz found the idea repugnant in practice, yet it had a
certain moral allure. How vigorously would men prosecute their wars
if they had to eat those who fell before their swords?</p>

<p>Interesting. But how to impose the requirement?</p>

<p>The mantas began returning. Near as the old man could tell, they
were very pleased with themselves.</p>

<p>It was over. The windwhale was up and safely away and now
preoccupied with its digestion. Bomanz rose. Time to turn in.</p>

<p>As he passed Darling, Silent, and the scarred menhir, he said,
&ldquo;Next time the bear is going to bite back. You should have
stuck him while you had him.&rdquo;</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide21.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide23.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

