<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Shadows Linger</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="shadows.css">
</head>
<body>

<div class="center"><small><a href="slide35.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide37.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">Chapter Thirty-Five:<br>
JUNIPER: BAD NEWS</h2>


<p>The fuss was over. It had been a dramatic display while it
lasted, though not as impressive as some I&rsquo;ve seen. The
battle on the Stair of Tear. The fighting around Charm. This was
all flash and show, more rattling to Juniper&rsquo;s people than to
us or the denizens of the black castle. They did us no harm. The
worst they suffered was the direct deaths outside their gate. The
fire inside did no real harm. Or so the Taken reported.</p>

<p>Grimy, Whisper grounded her carpet outside my headquarters,
trundled inside looking the worse for wear but unharmed.
&ldquo;What started it?&rdquo; she asked.</p>

<p>The Lieutenant explained.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re getting frightened,&rdquo; she said.
&ldquo;Maybe desperate. Were they trying to scare you off or take
you prisoner?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Definitely prisoner,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;They hit us
with some kind of sleepy spell before they came after us.&rdquo;
One-Eye supported me with a nod.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why were they unsuccessful?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;One-Eye broke the spell. Turned it around on them. We
killed three.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah! No wonder they were upset. You brought one down with
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought we could understand them better if I cut one up
to see how he was made.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Whisper did one of her mental fades, communing with the mistress
of us all. She returned. &ldquo;A good idea. But Feather and I will
do the cutting. Where is the corpse? I&rsquo;ll take it to Duretile
now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I indicated the body. It was in plain sight. She had two men
carry it to her carpet. I muttered, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t damn trust
us to do anything anymore.&rdquo; Whisper heard me. She did not
comment.</p>

<p>Once the body was loaded, she told the Lieutenant, &ldquo;Begin
your preliminary siegework immediately. A circumvallation. Limper
will support you. It&rsquo;s likely the Dominator&rsquo;s creatures
will try to break out or take prisoners, or both. Don&rsquo;t
permit it. A dozen captives would allow them to open the pathway.
You would find yourself facing the Dominator. He would not be
kind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No shit.&rdquo; The Lieutenant is a tough guy&rsquo;s
tough guy when it suits him. In those moments not even the Lady
could intimidate him. &ldquo;Why don&rsquo;t you clear out? Tend to
your job and let me tend to mine.&rdquo;</p>

<p>His remarks didn&rsquo;t fit the moment, but he was fed up with
Taken in general. He had been on the march with the Limper for
months, and the Limper fancied himself a commander. He gave the
Lieutenant and Captain both a bellyful. And maybe that was the
source of the friction between the Company and Taken. The Captain
had his limits, too, though he was more diplomatic than the
Lieutenant. He would ignore orders that did not suit him.</p>

<p>I went out to watch the circumvallation of the black castle.
Drafts of laborers arrived from the Buskin, shovels over their
shoulders and terror in their eyes. Our men put down their tools
and assumed guardianship and supervisory roles. Occasionally the
black castle sputtered, making a feeble attempt to interfere, like
a volcano muttering to itself after its energy has been spent. The
locals sometimes scattered and had to be rounded up. We lost a lot
of good will won earlier.</p>

<p>A sheepish yet angry Pawnbroker came looking for me, gravity
accentuated by the afternoon sunlight. I eased away and went to
meet him. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the bad news?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That damned Shed. Made a run for it in the
confusion.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Confusion?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The city went crazy when the Taken started sniping at the
castle. We lost track of Shed. By the time Goblin found him, he was
on a ship headed for Meadenvil. I tried to keep it from pulling
out, but they wouldn&rsquo;t stop. I shot them up, then grabbed a
boat and went after them, but I couldn&rsquo;t catch up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>After cursing Pawnbroker, and stifling an urge to strangle him,
I sat down to think. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the matter with him, Pawn?
What&rsquo;s he afraid of?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Everything, Croaker. His own shadow. I reckon he figured
we were going to kill him. Goblin says it was more than that, but
you know how he loves to complicate stuff.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Like what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Goblin says he wants to make a clean break with the old
Shed. Fear of us was the motivation he needed to get
moving.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Clean break?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know. Like from guilt about everything he did. And
from reprisals by the Inquisitors. Bullock knows he was in on the
Catacombs raid. Bullock would jump on him as soon as he got
back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I stared down at the shadowed harbor. Ships were getting under
way still. The waterfront looked naked. If outsiders kept running,
we would become very unpopular. Juniper depended heavily on
trade.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You find Elmo. Tell him. Say I think you ought to go
after Shed. Find Kingpin and those guys and bring them back. Check
on Darling and Bullock while you&rsquo;re at it.&rdquo; He looked
like a man condemned, but did not protest. He had several screw-ups
to his credit. Being separated from his comrades was a cheap
penalty to pay. &ldquo;Right,&rdquo; he said, and hustled off.</p>

<p>I returned to the task at hand.</p>

<p>Disorganization resolved itself as the troops formed the locals
into work crews. The earth was flying. First a good deep trench so
the creatures from the castle would have trouble getting out, then
a palisade behind that.</p>

<p>One of the Taken remained airborne, circling high above,
watching the castle.</p>

<p>Wagons began coming up from the city, carrying timber and
rubble. Down there other work crews were demolishing buildings for
materials. Though they were structures unfit for occupation and
long overdue for replacement, they housed people who were not going
to love us for destroying their homes.</p>

<p>One-Eye and a sergeant named Shaky took a large labor draft
around the castle, down to the roughest slope, and began a mine
designed to drop part of the castle wall down the steep slope. They
did nothing to conceal their purpose. Wasn&rsquo;t much point
trying. The things we faced had the power to knife through any
subterfuge.</p>

<p>Actually managing to breech the wall would be a tough job. It
might take weeks, even with One-Eye helping. The miners would have
to cut through many yards of solid rock.</p>

<p>The project was one of several feints the Lieutenant would
employ, though the way he plans a siege, one day&rsquo;s feint can
become another&rsquo;s main thrust. Drawing on a manpower pool like
Juniper, he could exercise every option.</p>

<p>I felt a certain pride, watching the siege take shape. I have
been with the Company a long time. Never had we undertaken so
ambitious a project. Never had we been given the wherewithal. I
wandered around till I found the Lieutenant. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
the plan here, anyway?&rdquo; Nobody ever told me anything.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just nail them down so they can&rsquo;t get out. Then the
Taken will jump all over them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I grunted. Basic and simple. I expected it would get more
complicated. The creatures inside would fight. I expect the
Dominator was lying restless, shaping a counterstroke. Must be hell
to be buried alive, able to do nothing but wish and hope at minions
far beyond direct control. Such impotence would destroy me in a
matter of hours. I told the Lieutenant about Shed&rsquo;s escape.
He did not get excited. Shed meant little to him. He did not know
about Raven and Darling. To him, Raven was a deserter and Darling
his camp follower. Nothing special. I wanted him to know about Shed
so he would mention it to the Captain. The Captain might want to
take action more vigorous than my recommendation to Elmo.</p>

<p>I stayed with the Lieutenant a while, he watching the work
crews, I watching a wagon train come uphill. This one should be
bringing supper. &ldquo;Getting damned tired of cold meals,&rdquo;
I muttered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Tell you what you ought to do, Croaker. You ought to get
married and settle down.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure,&rdquo; I replied, more sarcastically than I felt.
&ldquo;Right after you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, really. This might be the place to do it. Set
yourself up in practice, catering to the rich. That Duke&rsquo;s
family, say. Then, when your girlfriend gets here, you pop the
question and you&rsquo;re all set.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Daggers of ice drove into my soul, twisting. I croaked,
&ldquo;Girlfriend?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He grinned. &ldquo;Sure. Nobody told you? She&rsquo;s coming out
for the big show. Going to run it personally. Be your big
chance.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My big chance. But for what?</p>

<p>He was talking about the Lady, of course. It had been years, but
still they rode me about some romantic stories I wrote before I
actually met the Lady. They always ride anybody about anything they
know will get their goat. All part of the game. All part of the
brotherhood.</p>

<p>I bet the son-of-a-bitch had been boiling with the news since
first he heard it, waiting to spring in on me.</p>

<p>The Lady. Coming to Juniper.</p>

<p>I considered deserting for real. While there was a ship or two
left to get away.</p>
 <br>
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide35.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide37.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

