<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>She Is The Darkness</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="darkness.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide97.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide99.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">96</h2>

<p>&ldquo;It ain&rsquo;t my fucking idea,&rdquo; I told Rudy. For the
third time. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t like it, go join Goblin and
One-Eye. Wherever they are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I just never thought we&rsquo;d really do it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nobody but the Old Man did. Me included. But he says
we&rsquo;re going, we&rsquo;re going. That&rsquo;s the way it
works.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Never said I wouldn&rsquo;t go,&rdquo; Rudy grumbled,
more to himself than to me. He went off to scream at his sergeants.
He would need to decide who to leave in charge while we were
gone.</p>

<p>I was working on that myself. I had sought recommendations as
soon as I got back from the Old Man&rsquo;s place. We would learn a
lot about our southern recruits. The Old Man wanted to leave no Old
Crew or Nar behind.</p>

<p>Ochiba, Isi and Sindawe were the only surviving Nar.</p>

<p>Bucket came by. In practical terms, he was my assistant. He did
most of the work. I did not interfere unless he got headed in a
direction I knew would get the Captain after me. He said,
&ldquo;You really squeezed Rudy&rsquo;s nuts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The man is driving me bugfuck. What do you want?&rdquo;
More than Rudy was making me cranky. Sleepy was getting worse..
Thai Dei was being a pain in the ass because I had not bothered to
visit Uncle Doj while we were across the valley.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey, Murgen, it&rsquo;s all right to be scared. But you
don&rsquo;t need to make everybody else miserable because you
are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I started to bark but realized that would not change the fact
that he was right. I grabbed up a stone and threw it as far as I
could, as if the fear would fly away with it. The rock clattered
around amongst some boulders. Half a dozen crows flapped into the
air, cursing in their native tongue. &ldquo;Shit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not a good sign,&rdquo; Bucket agreed. &ldquo;We
haven&rsquo;t seen any of those for a while. Want we should take
them out?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They weren&rsquo;t close enough to hear anything. But
have somebody check the area.&rdquo; I considered the sun. There
were a few hours of daylight left. I had time to start the recon
that needed doing before we took a bigger gang up the mountain.</p>

<p>Bucket sent men to the crow site. One held up what might have
been a ground squirrel when it was alive. He held his nose with his
free hand. Bucket told me, &ldquo;Maybe they weren&rsquo;t spying
at all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All things are possible,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;But some
are more likely than others. Thai Dei. I know you got some pretty
determined ideas about what you owe me but you really don&rsquo;t
need to take risks just because I do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The Nyueng Bao squatted not far away, sword sheathed across his
back, waiting, a ragged little man who did not look dangerous at
all. He looked me in the eye, grunted his go-ahead-and-explain
grunt.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going through the Shadowgate. Wait! It&rsquo;s
all right. I&rsquo;ve got the key. The Lance. As long as I&rsquo;ve
got that I should be all right.&rdquo; If Croaker really had
guessed correctly.</p>

<p>I would have felt more confident had I had a chance to study
those earliest Annals.</p>

<p>Thai Dei climbed to his feet wearily, like his knees hurt him.
He sighed, made a &ldquo;let&rsquo;s go&rdquo; gesture.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Look,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;you don&rsquo;t have
to.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He gestured again.</p>

<p>I would get nowhere arguing. Thai Dei was two steps beyond being
stubborn. All Nyueng Bao are at least one step beyond. My wife&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>I grabbed the shaft of the standard, started kicking rocks away
from its base. It had stood undisturbed, right there, for half a
year, becoming a fixture nobody much noticed anymore.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wait,&rdquo; Bucket said. &ldquo;Use your noggin, Murgen.
You can&rsquo;t just tighten your jaw and go charging up there.
Take some bamboo. Take a canteen. Take a loaf of bread and some
jerky. And let me set some guys up to cover your ass.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. You&rsquo;re right.&rdquo; This business had
me more rattled and scared than I realized.</p>

<p>I let Bucket take over. He did not have to go through the
Shadowgate so he could remain calm and rational.</p>

<p>The Standardbearer is always the first guy into any Company
scrape.</p>

<p>I was as far uphill as any of us had gone. The standard shivered
in my hands. I leaned on it and stared at the ruins, trying to pick
the path I wanted to follow. Bucket stood a few paces behind me,
relaying instructions to Rudy. Rudy was posting observers. I did
not want to be out of sight for an instant, ever. If the boogies
got me the rest needed to know how, when, why and where.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Anytime you&rsquo;re ready,&rdquo; I growled. I had a
feeling I was not going to get less frightened for a while.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re set,&rdquo; Bucket yelled. &ldquo;Tie a rope
to your ass and go be a hero.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Be a hero. Not something I ever wanted. I gave him the high sign
with both hands, grabbed the standard before it could topple.
&ldquo;See you in hell, mudsucker.&rdquo; I headed up the hill.</p>

<p>Thai Dei shouldered a bundle of bamboo and followed. He did a
better job of hiding his fear but he let them tie a rope to his
belt, too. In case he had to be hauled back through the gate.</p>

<p>The standard almost hummed in my hands.</p>

<p>I knew the precise instant when I crossed over. It felt like I
had fallen into a cold pond that was nothing but surface. The chill
ran over me, then was behind me, yet I was in a place where it was
cold all the time. You might be able to fry eggs on the rocks but
it was cold.</p>

<p>I took only a few steps. I paused. I waited. Minutes passed. The
cold did not go away. I stared up the slope. And, gradually, the
road became more clear, a thin black line like polished coal
meandering up the hill like the trail of a snake just barely not
drunk enough to wander off into the barren wilds. I waited some
more. Nothing jumped out at me. No shadows came to wriggle up my
legs.</p>

<p>The standard seemed very much at home. It seemed to pull me
uphill.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You all got a good fix on me?&rdquo; I yelled at
Bucket.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Got ahold of the rope, too, buddy.&rdquo; Bucket&rsquo;s
reply and laugh sounded like they had come to me through a long
metal tunnel.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I got a rope for you, Bucket.&rdquo; I took another three
steps. Thai Dei dragged after me. The man lacked enthusiasm.</p>

<p>Nothing happened. I took a few more steps. The road up the hill
gleamed like polished darkness, calling me onward. The fear began
to drain away. Fast.</p>

<p>Thai Dei said something but I did not catch it.</p>

<p>The rope tautening stopped me.</p>

<p>I had moved farther uphill without realizing it. I had reached
the end of my tether. Bucket gave me a tug. &ldquo;Far enough for
now, Murgen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Yeah. I was way past where I had intended to go. But there was
nothing to be afraid of Bucket gave me another tug, with greater
vigor.</p>

<p>I backed downhill reluctantly. Thai Dei said something again. I
looked back. Then I understood what he wanted.</p>

<p>He pointed northward.</p>

<p>The world looked kind of shimmery, as though we were seeing it
through a curtain of heat.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go, Murgen!&rdquo; Bucket yelled. &ldquo;We
want you back and the gateway sealed up before it gets dark.&rdquo;
He gave my tether another yank.</p>

<p>The man was getting nervous.</p>

<p>Still reluctant, I stepped across the boundary. This time was
like stepping into summer out of winter.</p>

<p>Thai Dei sighed. He was pleased. The hill held no attraction for
him.</p>

<p>My world had changed. Just the slightest. I could still see the
penstroke of polished darkness meandering down what once had been a
road. Dirt and fallen stone concealed most of it but adequate
evidence remained if one but had the eye.</p>

<p>I felt I was a different man after having crossed that line.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You all right?&rdquo; Rudy asked. &ldquo;You look
strange.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s strange over there. The same but
different.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t explain. That&rsquo;s the way it feels.
You&rsquo;ll understand once you go up there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Bucket joined us, wrapping rope into a coil. &ldquo;You all
right? You look like you saw a ghost.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s just weird over there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Weird? How? You didn&rsquo;t do anything that strange.
Except kind of forget yourself. And your sidekick didn&rsquo;t do
that. He just stood there and shivered.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s part of it. It feels cold. Only not
physically cold. More like the cold Blade would claim you&rsquo;ll
find in a priest&rsquo;s heart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I must have looked puzzled. Bucket said, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re
telling me you had to be there to understand.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I told Thai Dei, &ldquo;The man acts as dumb as a stump but
he&rsquo;ll fool you sometimes. You got it exactly, Bucket. Get
some fresh dust up here. And make sure those ropes are all taut and
the shadowtraps are all set. I want a full complement
of&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Calm down,&rdquo; Rudy told me. &ldquo;You set it all up
before. Remember?&rdquo; Soldiers were at work making sure of our
protection already. My fuss was a waste of worry.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Tell you straight up, that was scary. It&rsquo;s gonna
take me a while to wind down. You got a messenger ready to go?
I&rsquo;ll jot a report for the Old Man. Then I&rsquo;m going to
crawl into my bunker and get intimately acquainted with my last jug
of One-Eye&rsquo;s medicine.&rdquo; I had one jug of the little
wizard&rsquo;s most potent distillate squirreled away for use in a
medical emergency.</p>

<p>This seemed like an emergency to me.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide97.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide99.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

