<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Shadow Games</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="games.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide27.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide29.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">Chapter Twenty-seven: NIGHT STRIFE</h2>

<p>I gave Murgen my dirtiest look as he rode up. He understood it.
We would talk later. For the moment he said, &ldquo;You told me to
keep an eye on them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan reached me a moment later. &ldquo;Gods, you guys move fast.
I&rsquo;m shot.&rdquo; He made an obscene gesture at the sky.
&ldquo;We leave five minutes after you and find out you had time to
take a couple of breaks and still stay ahead of us.&rdquo; He shook
his head. &ldquo;Bunch of iron men. Told you I wasn&rsquo;t cut put
for this crap, Cordy.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where is everybody?&rdquo; Murgen asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. We got ambushed. We got
separated.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Mather, Swan, and Blade exchanged glances. Swan asked,
&ldquo;Little brown guys? All wrinkly?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know them?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We had a run-in with them when we were headed north. Man,
I got me a brainstorm. We going to jaw, let&rsquo;s do it out of
the rain. My lumbago is killing me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Lumbago?&rdquo; Mather asked. &ldquo;When did you come up
with lumbago?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;When I forgot my hat and it started raining on my head.
Blade, you was in this place last year. They got like an inn, or
something?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Blade didn&rsquo;t say anything, just turned his horse and
headed out. He was an odd one for sure. But Swan thought he was an
all-right guy, and I liked Swan as much as I could like anybody who
worked for somebody who was trying to play games with me.</p>

<p>I was about to follow up last, with Murgen, when Murgen said,
&ldquo;Hold up. Somebody&rsquo;s coming.&rdquo; He pointed.</p>

<p>I looked into the drizzle to the south and saw three shapes,
riders coming in. Their mounts were tall enough that they could be
nothing but Lady&rsquo;s gifts. Swan cursed the delay but we
waited.</p>

<p>The three were Hagop, Otto, and the roi Shadid. Shadid looked
ragged. And Hagop and Otto were wounded. &ldquo;Damn you two.
Can&rsquo;t you take a crap without getting hurt?&rdquo; In the
thirty or so years I had known them it seemed they had come up
wounded about three times a year. And survived everything. I&rsquo;d begun
to suspect they were immortal and the blood was the price they
paid.</p>

<p>&ldquo;They piled an ambush on top of the ambush,
Croaker,&rdquo; Hagop said. &ldquo;They ran us down that valley
right into another gang on horseback.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My stomach tightened. &ldquo;And?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He put on a feeble grin. &ldquo;I figure they&rsquo;re sorry
they did. We cut them up bad.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where are the others?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. We scattered. Lady said for Shadid to
ride back up here with us and wait. She led them off.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. Blade. Why don&rsquo;t you show us where to
roost?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Murgen looked at me with a question unspoken. I told him,
&ldquo;Yeah. We&rsquo;ll get them settled. Then we&rsquo;ll
go.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The place Blade took us wasn&rsquo;t really an inn, just a big
house where the owner made a bit taking in travellers. He was not
thrilled to see us, though like everybody else in this end of the
world he seemed to know who we were. The color of our coin
brightened his day and livened his smile. Still, I think he let us
in mainly because he thought we would get rowdy if he
didn&rsquo;t.</p>

<p>I got Otto and Hagop sewed up and bandaged and generally settled
into a routine they knew all too well. Meanwhile, the householder
brought food, for which Swan expressed our sincere gratitude.</p>

<p>Murgen said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s going to be getting dark,
Croaker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know. Swan, we&rsquo;re going put to find the others.
Got a spare horse if you want to ride along.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You kidding? Go out in that muck when I don&rsquo;t have
to? Hell. All right. I guess.&rdquo; He started levering himself
out of his chair.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sit down, Willow,&rdquo; Mather said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll
go. I&rsquo;m in better shape than you are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Swan said, &ldquo;You talked me into it, you smooth-talking son
of a bitch. I don&rsquo;t know how you do it, you golden-tongued
bastard. You can get anything you want out of me. Be
careful.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ready?&rdquo; Mather asked me. He stifled a small
smile.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We went out and climbed onto the horses, who were beginning to
look a little put-upon. I led out, but Shadid soon slipped past,
suggesting he lead since he knew whence they had come. The day was
getting on. The light was feeble. It was about as dreary as it
could get. More to distract myself than because I cared, I told
Murgen, &ldquo;Better explain what&rsquo;s going on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Cordy can tell you better than me. I just stuck with
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The roi was not setting a blistering pace. I fought down the
growls breeding in my gut. I kept telling me she was a big girl and
she&rsquo;d been taking care of herself since before I was born.
But the man in me kept saying that&rsquo;s your woman, you got to
take care of her.</p>

<p>Sure.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Cordy? I know you guys don&rsquo;t work for me and you
got your own priorities, but&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing to cover up, Captain. Word came that some of you
guys was going to ride out. That boggled the Woman. She figured you
all to make a break for the Main in a mob and learn about the
Shadowmasters the hard way. Instead, you went to scout it. She
didn&rsquo;t think you were that smart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;re talking about the old broad you guys brought
down the river, right. The Radisha?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. We call her the Woman. Blade hung it on her before
we knew who she was.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And she knew we were heading out before we went.
Interesting. This is a wondrous time of my life, Mr. Mather. For
the last year everybody in the world has known what I was going to
do before I did. It&rsquo;s enough to make a guy
nervous.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We passed some trees. In one I spied this incredibly bedraggled
crow. I laughed, and hoped aloud he was as miserable as me. The
others eyed me uncertainly. I wondered if I shouldn&rsquo;t start
cultivating a new image. Work it up slowly. All the world dreads a
madman. If I played it right&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey, Cordy, old travelling buddy. You sure you
don&rsquo;t know anything about those little brown guys?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All I know is they tried to ice us when we was headed
north. Nobody ever saw anybody like them before. They figure to be
out of the Shadowlands.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why are the Shadowmasters paranoid about us?&rdquo; I did
not expect an answer. I did not get one. &ldquo;Cordy, you guys
really serious about winning it for the Prahbrindrah?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am. For Taglios. I found something there I never found
anywhere else. Willow too, though you could roast him and never get
it out of him. I don&rsquo;t know about Blade. I guess he&rsquo;s
in because we&rsquo;re in. He&rsquo;s got one and a half friends in
the world and nothing else to live for. He&rsquo;s just going
on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;One and a half?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Willow he&rsquo;s got. I&rsquo;m the half. We pulled him
out when somebody threw him to the crocodiles. He stuck because he
owed us a life. After what we&rsquo;ve been through since then if
you was keeping accounts you couldn&rsquo;t figure who owes who
what anymore. I can&rsquo;t tell you about the real Blade. He never
lets you see that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What are we into? Or is that something you figure you
shouldn&rsquo;t tell me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s more going on than your Woman and the
Prahbrindrah trying to get us to keep the Shadowmasters out.
Otherwise they&rsquo;d make a straight deal instead of trying to
con us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>We travelled a mile while he thought. He finally said, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t know for sure. I think they&rsquo;re doing the way they
are because of the way the Black Company did Taglios
before.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought so. And we don&rsquo;t know what our
forebrethren did. And no one will tell us. It&rsquo;s like one
giant conspiracy where everybody in Taglios won&rsquo;t tell us
anything. In a city that big you&rsquo;d think I&rsquo;d find one
guy with an axe to grind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;d find platoons if you looked in the right
place. All them priests spend their lives looking to cut each
others&rsquo; throats.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He had given me something there. I wasn&rsquo;t sure what.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll keep it in mind. I don&rsquo;t know if I can
handle priests, though.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They&rsquo;re like any other guys if you get your bluff
in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The gloom closed in tighter as the day advanced. I was so soaked
I no longer paid that much attention. We hit a stretch where we had
to go single file. Cordy and Murgen dropped back. &ldquo;I picked
up a few things I&rsquo;ll tell you about later,&rdquo; Murgen said
before he went.</p>

<p>I moved up behind the roi to ask how much farther. It was just
the misery of the day, but I felt like I&rsquo;d been travelling
for weeks.</p>

<p>Something whipped across our path so suddenly that that
unflappable mount of Shadid&rsquo;s reared and whinnied. He shouted
&ldquo;What the hell was that?&rdquo; in his native tongue. I
understood because I&rsquo;d learned a few words when I was a
kid.</p>

<p>I caught only a glimpse. It looked like a monster grey wolf with
a deformed pup clinging to its back. It vanished before my eye
could track it.</p>

<p>Do wolves do that? Carry their young on their backs?</p>

<p>I laughed almost hysterically. Why worry about that when I ought
to be wondering if there was such a thing as a wolf the size of a
pony?</p>

<p>Murgen and Cordy caught up and wanted to know what had happened.
I said I didn&rsquo;t know because I was no longer sure I had seen
what I had seen.</p>

<p>But the wonder lay back there in the shadows of my mind,
ripening.</p>

<p>Shadid stopped two miles past the place where we&rsquo;d been
ambushed originally. It was getting hard to see. He peered around,
trying to read landmarks. He grunted, moved out to his left, off
the road. I spied signs suggesting this was the way he had come
with Otto and Hagop.</p>

<p>After another half mile the ground dropped into a small valley
where a narrow creek ran. Rocks stuck up seemingly at random.
Likewise, trees grew in scatters. It was now so dark I could not
see more than twenty feet.</p>

<p>We started finding bodies.</p>

<p>A lot of little brown men had died for their cause. Whatever
that was.</p>

<p>Shadid stopped again. &ldquo;We led them in from the other
direction. Here&rsquo;s where we split. We went up that way. The
others held on to give us a head start.&rdquo; He dismounted, began
snooping around. The light was almost gone before he found the
track out of the valley. It was full dark before we covered a
mile.</p>

<p>Murgen said, &ldquo;Maybe we ought to go back and wait. We
can&rsquo;t accomplish much stumbling around in the
dark.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You go back if you want,&rdquo; I snapped, with a
savagery that surprised me. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m staying till I
find&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>I could not see him, but I suspected he was grinning through his
misery. He said, &ldquo;Maybe we shouldn&rsquo;t split up. That
much more trouble getting everybody back together.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Riding through the night in unfamiliar territory is not one of
the smarter things I&rsquo;ve done. Especially with a horde out
there that wanted to do me harm. But the gods take care of fools, I
guess.</p>

<p>Our mounts stopped. Their ears pricked. After a moment mine made
a sound. A moment later still that sound was repeated from our left
quarter. Without being urged the animals turned that way.</p>

<p>We found Sindawe and the man he&rsquo;d brought in a crude bough
shelter, their mounts hanging around outside. Both were injured,
Sindawe the worst. We talked briefly while I did some stitching and
patching and bandaging. Lady had ordered them to disappear. Goblin
had covered for them while the pursuit went on off to the
southeast. They had planned to head north in the morning.</p>

<p>I told them where to meet up, then got back into my saddle.</p>

<p>I was dead on my butt, barely able to stay upright, but
something made me go on. Something I did not want to examine too
closely lest I have to mock myself for my sentiment.</p>

<p>I got no arguments, though I think Mather was getting a little
unsure of my sanity. I heard him whispering with Murgen, and Murgen
telling him to can it.</p>

<p>I took the lead and gave my horse his head, telling him to find
Lady&rsquo;s mount. I&rsquo;d never determined how intelligent the
beasts were, but it seemed worth a try. And the animal went
walking, though his pace was a little slow to suit me.</p>

<p>I don&rsquo;t know how long the ride went on. There was no way
to estimate time. After a while I began drifting off and coming
awake with a start, then drifting off again. Near as I could tell,
the others were doing the same thing.</p>

<p>I could have raised hell with them and me both, but that would
have been unreasonable. Reasonable men would have been in a warm
room, back at that village, snoring.</p>

<p>I was about half awake when the crest of a hill half a mile
ahead burst into flames. It was like an explosion. One moment
darkness, the next several acres ablaze and men and animals
scattering, burning, too. The smell of sorcery was so strong I
could detect it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Go, horse!&rdquo;</p>

<p>There was light enough for it to risk a trot.</p>

<p>A minute later I was moving over ground dotted by smoldering,
twitching bodies. Little brown men. One hell of a lot of little
brown men.</p>

<p>The flaming trees illuminated a racing silhouette, a gigantic
wolf with a smaller wolf astride, clinging with paws and claws.
&ldquo;What the hell is that?&rdquo; Mather demanded.</p>

<p>Murgen guessed, &ldquo;That Shifter, Croaker?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe. Probably. We know he&rsquo;s around somewhere.
Lady!&rdquo; I yelled it at the burning trees. The fire was dying
in the drizzle.</p>

<p>A sound that might have been an answer slithered through the
crackling.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where are you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Something moved amidst an outcrop of small rocks. I jumped down.
&ldquo;Goblin! Where the hell are you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>No Goblin. Just Lady. And now not enough light to see how badly
she was hurt. And hurt she was, no doubt about that. A fool damned
thing to do, and me a physician who ought to know better, but I sat
down and pulled her into my lap and held her, rocking her like a
baby.</p>

<p>The mind goes.</p>

<p>From the minute you sign on with the Company you&rsquo;re doing
things that make no sense, drills and practices and rehearsals, so
that when the crunch comes you&rsquo;ll do the right thing
automatically, without thought. The mind goes. I was without
thought of anything but loss. I did not do the right thing.</p>

<p>I was lucky. I had companions whose brains had not turned to
mud.</p>

<p>They got together enough burnable wood to get a fire started,
got me my gear, and with a little judicious yelling got me to stop
fussing and start doing.</p>

<p>She wasn&rsquo;t as bad off as she&rsquo;d seemed in the dark. A
few cuts, a lot of bruises, maybe a concussion to account for her
grogginess. The old battlefield reflexes took over. I became a
military physician. Again.</p>

<p>Murgen joined me after a while. &ldquo;I found her horse. No
sign of Goblin, though. How is she?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Better than she looks. Banged around some but nothing
critical. She&rsquo;ll hurt all over for a while.&rdquo;</p>

<p>About then her eyelids fluttered, she looked up at me, and
recognized me. She threw herself at me, wrapped her arms around me,
and started crying.</p>

<p>Shadid said something. Murgen chuckled. &ldquo;Yeah. Let&rsquo;s
see if we can find Goblin.&rdquo; Cordy Mather was a beat slow, but
he got it and went away, too.</p>

<p>She settled down quickly. She was who she was, and was not in
the habit of yielding to her emotions. She peeled herself off me.
&ldquo;Excuse me, Croaker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing to excuse. You had a close call.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What happened?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was going to ask you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;They had me. They had me dead, Croaker. I thought
we&rsquo;d given them the slip, but they knew right where we were.
They split us apart and ran me up here, and there must have been a
dozen of them sneaking around, jumping in on me and jumping away.
They were trying to capture me, not kill me. Guess I should be
glad. Otherwise, I&rsquo;d be dead. But there&rsquo;s some time
missing. I don&rsquo;t remember you showing up and running them
off.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t. Near as I can tell, Shifter saved
you.&rdquo; I told her about the sudden fire and the
wolf.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe. I didn&rsquo;t know he was around.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where&rsquo;s Goblin?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. We split about a mile from here. He
tried to baffle them with illusions. We must have killed a hundred
of those men today, Croaker. I never saw anybody so inept. But they
never stopped coming. When we tried to outrun them there were
always more in ambush no matter which way we went. If we tried to
fight they always outnumbered us and two more turned up for every
one we killed. It was a nightmare. They always knew where we
were.&rdquo; She snuggled in close again. &ldquo;There had to be
some kind of sorcery involved. I was never so scared.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s all right now. It&rsquo;s over.&rdquo; It was
the best I could think to say. Now that my nerves were settled I
was intensely aware of her as a woman.</p>

<p>What appeared to be lightning flashed to the east, several miles
away. But there had been no lightning running with this petty
drizzle. I heard Shadid and Murgen and Mather yelling at each
other, then the sounds of their mounts moving away.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s got to be Goblin,&rdquo; I said, and started to
get up.</p>

<p>She tightened her grip, held me down. &ldquo;They can handle it,
Croaker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I looked down. It did not take much light to show me what was in
her face. &ldquo;Yeah. I guess they can.&rdquo; After a
moment&rsquo;s hesitation, I did what she wanted.</p>

<p>As the breathing got heavier I broke away and said,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re not in any shape for&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up, Croaker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shut up, and paid attention to business.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide27.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide29.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

