<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Yendi</title>
<meta name="title" content="Yendi">
<meta name="series" content="Vlad Taltos">
<meta name="booknum" content="2">
<meta name="author" content="Brust, Steven">
<meta name="genre" content="Science Fiction/Fantasy">
<meta name="publisher" content="Ace Books">
<meta name="isbn" content="0-441-94460-4">
<meta name="version" content="v3.0">
<meta name="proof" content="Shoggoth">
<meta name="proof2" content="Nadie">
<style type="text/css">
@import url(../user.css)
@import url(.../user.css)
</style>

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="yendi.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide8.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide10.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">8</h2>

<h3 class="chapter">&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll stay here and clean up the
blood.&rdquo;</h3>

<p>It <em>is</em> sad but true that there are a strictly limited
number of times when waking up with the thought, &ldquo;Hey,
I&rsquo;m alive!&rdquo; is really astonishing. I hadn&rsquo;t quite
hit the limit yet, so I had the obligatory reaction, followed by,
&ldquo;Dear Verra, I hurt.&rdquo;</p>

<p>My side, where the broadsword had taken me, felt hot and
feverish, and the area around my kidney, where my lover had put her
dagger into me, itched, burned, and ached. I moaned. Then I became
aware of the sound of voices, outside the room and perhaps a bit
down the hall.</p>

<p>My arm was around Cawti&rsquo;s shoulder, her head on my chest.
I enjoyed the sensation, but I was curious about the voices. Moving
as carefully as I could, I succeeded in not waking her up. I
dressed carefully, making sure nothing clinked.</p>

<p>Meanwhile, the voices had been growing gradually louder. As soon
as I felt dangerous again I opened the door, and identified
Aliera&rsquo;s voice, although I still couldn&rsquo;t distinguish
the words. The dark stone walls of the hallway greeted me; the air
was cold and dank, the hallway high and wide. I thought back to my
first visit to Dzur Mountain and shuddered. I turned toward the
voices. I identified the other voice as Morrolan&rsquo;s. As I
approached, he was speaking.</p>

<p>&ldquo;&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;you say may be true, but that
hardly makes it any of our affair.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Any of our affair? Whose is it then? I&mdash;there! You
see? You&rsquo;ve woken up one of my patients.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is just as well,&rdquo; countered Morrolan, nodding to
me. &ldquo;You have <em>exhausted</em> all of <em>my</em>
patience.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I was in a long room, dimly lit and filled with books. There
were several chairs nearby, all done in black leather, but they
were empty. Morrolan and Aliera stood facing each other.
Morrolan&rsquo;s arms were crossed on his chest; Aliera&rsquo;s
hands were on her hips. As she turned to me, I saw that her eyes,
normally green, had turned blue. This is as much of a danger sign
as the stiffening of a dragon&rsquo;s neck tentacles. I found a
chair and sat down, to ease the pain a bit. This looked like it was
going to be a good one.</p>

<p>Aliera snorted at his comment and turned back. &ldquo;Ha!
It&rsquo;s your own fault if you can&rsquo;t see the obvious.
What&rsquo;s the matter, isn&rsquo;t it subtle enough for
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If there was anything to see,&rdquo; he parried, &ldquo;I
would doubtless have seen it long before you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Aliera pressed the attack. &ldquo;If you had the sense of honor
of a teckla. you&rsquo;d see it as clearly as I do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And had you the eyesight of a teckla, you would be able
to see what does and does not concern us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>This forced Aliera into a parry. &ldquo;How could it not concern
us? A Dragon is a Dragon. Only this one happens to be a Jhereg. I
want to find out why, and so should you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Morrolan gestured toward me with his head. &ldquo;Have you met
Vlad&rsquo;s assistant, Kragar? <em>He&rsquo;s</em> as much of a
Dragon&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>She snorted again. &ldquo;That snake? He was thrown out of the
House, as you well know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perhaps so was&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If so,&rdquo; she stop thrust, &ldquo;we&rsquo;ll find
out, and then why.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why don&rsquo;t you simply ask her?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She&rsquo;d never tell me, you know that. She won&rsquo;t
even admit that she is a Dragon, much less&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Morrolan snorted and tried a fancy maneuver, saying, &ldquo;You
know quite well that your only interest in this is to find someone
else to be heir.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So what? What have my motives to do
with&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Aliera!&rdquo; said Morrolan suddenly. &ldquo;Perhaps we
should ask Sethra.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She stopped and cocked her head to the side. &ldquo;Ye-e-ess. An
excellent idea. Why don&rsquo;t we? Perhaps <em>she</em> can talk
some sense into your head.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He sidestepped that. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go see her, then.&rdquo;
He turned to me. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll be back shortly.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Fine,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll stay here and
clean up the blood.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Never mind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They vanished. I stood up painfully and made my way back to the
Dag&mdash;to Cawti&rsquo;s room. Cawti. I let the name roll around
in my head. CAW-ti. Cawwww-tiii. Cawti. A good, Eastern name. I
started to open the door, stopped, and clapped softly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who is it?&rdquo; came from inside.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your victim,&rdquo; I said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Which one?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Funny, funny.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come in,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;At your own
risk.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I slipped inside. &ldquo;Good morning.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mmmmmm.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It occurs to me that you didn&rsquo;t kill me last
night.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, but I did,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Six times. But I
lost count and revivified you seven times.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I sat down on the bed next to her. She still hadn&rsquo;t
dressed. I ignored the dryness in my mouth. &ldquo;Oh. I must have
forgotten.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You could have killed me, too, you know.&rdquo; Her voice
was suddenly serious.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; I said slowly. &ldquo;But you knew I
wouldn&rsquo;t. I had no such knowledge of you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll take your word for that.&rdquo; She laughed
lightly. I put her laugh, with her shrug, on the list of things I
wanted to make her do more often. The candle sputtered, so I
rummaged around until I found a few more, and lit them all with the
remaining stub. I returned to the bed and tapped her side lightly.
She moved closer to the wall and I lay down. She rested her head on
my arm.</p>

<p>There were a few pleasant minutes of silence, then I said,
&ldquo;I overheard an interesting conversation just now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Concerning your partner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She tensed. &ldquo;What about her?&rdquo;</p>

<p>I described the conversation. She pulled away from me, leaning
on her arm to watch me as I spoke. Her brows were drawn together as
she listened. She looked very beautiful that way, too.</p>

<p>I finished the tale, and said, &ldquo;<em>Is</em> she a
Dragonlord?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Cawti shook her head. &ldquo;That isn&rsquo;t my secret to
tell.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Okay. You look worried.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She smiled a little and put her head back on my chest.
&ldquo;For an assassin, you&rsquo;re quite sensitive, Lord
Taltos.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In the first place, I&rsquo;m not an
assassin&mdash;you&rsquo;ve been listening to too many rumors about
me. In the second, the same goes for you, doubled. And in the
third, isn&rsquo;t &lsquo;Lord Taltos&rsquo; a bit out of place,
all things considered?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She chuckled. &ldquo;As you wish, Vlad. Vladimir.&rdquo; She
repeated it, slowly. &ldquo;Vladimir. VLA-di-meer. Vlaaaadimeer.
Vladimir. I like it. A good Eastern name.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shit,&rdquo; I said. &ldquo;Help me off with this damned
jerkin, will you? And careful not to stab
yourself&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Some time later, while engaged in serious snuggling, I said,
&ldquo;Morrolan and Aliera are liable to check up on your partner,
you know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mmmmm. They won&rsquo;t find anything.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be too sure, Cawti. They&rsquo;ve surprised
me before.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She tsked. &ldquo;Shouldn&rsquo;t let yourself be surprised,
Vladimir.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I snorted, and withheld a few remarks. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m serious.
They&rsquo;re bound to find out something. You don&rsquo;t have to
tell me what it is, but you ought to think about it. Have you been
in touch with her?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Then warn her&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why do you care?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh? I don&rsquo;t know. Jhereg are Jhereg, I guess. You
aren&rsquo;t a threat to me anymore, and I don&rsquo;t see why they
should be meddling. Or Aliera, rather. Morrolan doesn&rsquo;t see
why, either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mmmmmm.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I shrugged, causing her head to bounce on my chest. She giggled,
which amazed and delighted me no end. Have you ever met an assassin
who giggled? The absurdity of the whole situation was&mdash;</p>

<p>I decided that I had to get out of there. I sat up, dislodging
her. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to check on our hosts and see what
they&rsquo;re doing now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Like hell you are, my love. What&rsquo;s really bothering
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What did you call me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She sat up too, the bedclothes falling to her waist. She glared.
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t start getting mushy with me, you murdering
Easterner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What did you call me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A murdering Easterner.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, dear, and so are you. I meant before
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Vladimir&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, Deathsgate. I&rsquo;m getting out of here.&rdquo; I
dressed quickly and stepped into the hall, using all of my
willpower to avoid looking back at her. I returned to my room,
favoring my injured side, and collapsed on the bed. Loiosh gave me
a good chewing out (literally) for deserting him, after which I got
in touch with Kragar.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What&rsquo;s new?</em>&rdquo; I asked him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I have some information about the Phoenix
Guards&mdash;they weren&rsquo;t just withdrawn in the area around
where the job was done, they were taken out of the whole area.
They&rsquo;re gone.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Great. Well, I&rsquo;m pleased they aren&rsquo;t
around, but I wonder what it means. Any ideas?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>No.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Okay. I want you to try to find out something for
me.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Sure. What?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Everything you can on the Sword of the
Jhereg.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Is this a joke?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Do you think it&rsquo;s likely to be?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Fine. I&rsquo;ll get back to you in a hundred years
or so. Vlad,</em> how <em>am I&mdash;</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>She was once a Dragonlord; that should help. She was
probably expelled.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Wonderful. Should I try to bribe a Lyorn or a
Dragon?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>The Lyorn would be safer, but the Dragon is more
likely to help.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I was being sarcastic.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>I know. I wasn&rsquo;t.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>He sighed telepathically. &ldquo;<em>I&rsquo;ll see what I can
do. Would you mind telling me what we&rsquo;re doing this
for?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>That was a tricky one. I didn&rsquo;t feel like telling him that
his boss had become infatuated with his own executioner.
&ldquo;<em>Oh,</em>&rdquo; I told him, &ldquo;<em>I&rsquo;m sure
you can figure it out if you really work at it.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Silence, then: &ldquo;<em>You want to find out if there was
anything shady in her expulsion, so you can clear her and have her
owe you a favor, and then turn her back on Laris. Right? Not
bad.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hmmmm. Not bad at all. &ldquo;<em>Clever,</em>&rdquo; I told
him. It <em>was</em> clever. I&rsquo;d have to give him a bonus, if
it worked out. &ldquo;<em>Now, get on it.</em>&rdquo; I broke the
contact. I stretched out on the bed. After all of this, I really
<em>did</em> need to sleep. I also needed to get my emotions under
control.</p>

<p>The first thing I noticed when I woke up was that my side and
back didn&rsquo;t hurt so much. Also, I actually felt refreshed. I
lay there for a few minutes, just breathing and enjoying it, then
forced myself to get up. In addition to feeling refreshed, I also
felt filthy from sleeping in my clothes. I stripped and found a tub
of water in the corner, did a quick spell to heat it, and washed.
As I did this, I managed to put Cawti out of my mind, at least for
a little while, and concentrate on my real problem&mdash;Laris.</p>

<p>The idea Kragar had had wasn&rsquo;t bad at all, but it depended
on too many things that were outside of my control. Still, it was
worth checking into. Also worth checking into was the question of
why the Phoenix Guards had chosen that moment to leave. How could
he have arranged that? Where had the orders come from?</p>

<p>I snapped my fingers, getting soapy water in my eye.
<em>That</em> question, at least, I could get answered. I
concentrated on a certain Tsalmoth, who worked for Morrolan and
reported directly to me&mdash;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Who is it?</em>&rdquo; said Fentor.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Vlad.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Oh! Yes, milord?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>We need some information&mdash;</em>&rdquo; I
explained what I was after, and he agreed to check into it. I broke
the contact and chatted with Loiosh while I finished up my bath. I
looked disgustedly at my filthy clothes, shrugged, and started to
put them on again.</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Check the dressing table, boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Eh?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>But I did, then smiled. Aliera had been thorough. I donned the
change of clothes happily, then stepped out into the hall with
Loiosh riding on my right shoulder. It seemed as if I were
beginning to get things done. Good. I wandered down to the library,
found it empty, and took the stairs up to where the dining room and
various sitting rooms were.</p>

<p>The next thing, I decided, was to see if I could get more
information from whoever it was that had tipped Kragar off about
the assassination. The fact that we&rsquo;d actually learned
something from him was a very good sign. My biggest problem was
still lack of information, and this could mean we were starting to
solve it. I thought about getting in touch with Kragar again to ask
him to work on that more, but decided against it. As they say: if
you have someone stand for you, don&rsquo;t jog his sword arm while
he does.</p>

<p>I found Morrolan and Aliera in the first sitting room I came to,
along with Sethra. Sethra Lavode: tall, pale, undead, and faintly
vampiric. I&rsquo;d heard her age placed at anything from ten to
twenty thousand years, which is a significant portion of the age of
the Empire itself. She dressed in and surrounded herself with
black, the color of sorcery. She lived in Dzur Mountain; maybe she
<em>was</em> Dzur Mountain, for there are no records of a time when
she, or someone of her family, didn&rsquo;t live there. Dzur
Mountain was its own mystery, and not subject to being understood
by one such as me. The same may be said of Sethra.</p>

<p>Physically, though, she had the high, thin features of the House
of the Dragon. The upward slant of her eyes and the unusually
extreme point to her ears made one think of Dzurlords. There had
been rumors that she was half Dzur herself, but I doubted them.</p>

<p>To Sethra, even more than to most Dragaerans, an
Easterner&rsquo;s lifetime was a blink of an eye. Maybe
that&rsquo;s why she was so tolerant of me. (Morrolan&rsquo;s
tolerance was due to having lived among Easterners for many years
of his youth, during the Interregnum. Aliera&rsquo;s tolerance
I&rsquo;ve never understood; I suspect she was just being polite to
Morrolan.) Most Dragaerans had heard of Sethra Lavode, but few had
met her. She was periodically considered a hero, and had been
Warlord of the Empire (while she was still living) and Captain of
the Lavodes (when there were still Lavodes). At other times, such
as the present, she was considered an evil enchantress and Dzurlord
bait. Periodically, some fledgling hero would go up the Mountain to
destroy her. She turned them into jhegaala or yendi and sent them
back. I&rsquo;d told her that this wasn&rsquo;t going to help, but
she just smiled.</p>

<p>At her side was the dagger called Iceflame, which was sort of
Dzur Mountain in hand, or something. I don&rsquo;t know enough
about it to say more, and thinking about it makes me nervous.</p>

<p>I bowed to each of them, and said, &ldquo;Thank you for the
sanctuary, Sethra.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s no trouble, Vlad,&rdquo; she responded.
&ldquo;I enjoy your company. I&rsquo;m pleased to see that
you&rsquo;re recovering.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So am I.&rdquo; I sat down, then asked, &ldquo;What can
you fine specimens of Dragonhood tell me about the Phoenix
Guard?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Morrolan arched an eyebrow. &ldquo;What did you wish to know? Is
it your desire to join?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Could I?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m afraid,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;that your
species is against you there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But not my House?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He looked startled and glanced at Aliera.</p>

<p>She said, &ldquo;A Jhereg could join if he wanted to. There have
been some, I think&mdash;none who are actually a part of the
business end, I suppose, but some who&rsquo;ve bought Jhereg titles
instead of being Houseless.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I nodded. &ldquo;So it isn&rsquo;t all Dragons, eh? That&rsquo;s
what I was wondering about.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, no,&rdquo; said Aliera. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s mostly
Dragons, because all Dragons must serve periodically, but there are
others from every House in the guards&mdash;except Athyra, who are
never interested, and Phoenix, because there aren&rsquo;t enough of
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Suppose some colonel of some army of Dragonlords is
serving. Would he be a colonel in the guards?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Sethra. &ldquo;Rank among the guards has
nothing to do with any other rank. Officers in private armies often
serve under their own blademen.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see. Does this ever cause problems?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Aliera.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why the interest?&rdquo; asked Sethra.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m bothered by the fact that the guards who were
enforcing the Imperial Edict left just at the right time for our
friends to nail me. I can&rsquo;t believe it was
coincidence.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They looked at each other. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t think of any
way,&rdquo; said Sethra.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Whose decision would it have been? The Empress&rsquo;s?
Or whoever leads the guards?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Empress sent them; she would have had to order their
withdrawal,&rdquo; said Aliera. Morrolan nodded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think she
would have been involved in this on purpose, would she?&rdquo;
Three heads shook. &ldquo;Then is there anyone who could have made
the suggestion to her that &lsquo;now would be a good time,&rsquo;
and be confident that she&rsquo;d act on it at once?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Sethra and Aliera looked at Morrolan, who was at court more
often than they. He drummed his fingers on the arm of his chair.
&ldquo;Her lover,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;is said to be an
Easterner. I&rsquo;ve never met him, but he might have such
influence. Then there are her advisors, but, to be candid, she
hardly listens to most of them. I believe that she listens
seriously to me, but I could be deluding myself. And, in any case,
I made no such request of her. She pays attention to Sethra the
Younger, but Sethra has no interest in anything save invasion plans
for the East.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Sethra Lavode nodded. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s good to have an
ambition,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Sethra the Younger is the only
apprentice I&rsquo;ve ever had who&rsquo;s never tried to kill
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I turned back to Morrolan. &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t think of
anyone else?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not at present.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right then, what else? A faked message, maybe? Do
this right now, signed so-and-so?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who,&rdquo; said Morrolan, &ldquo;would write a message
rather than reach her psionically?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, someone she doesn&rsquo;t speak with often. It must
be hard to reach her directly, so&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No it isn&rsquo;t,&rdquo; said Aliera, looking at me as
if puzzled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It isn&rsquo;t?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course not. Any citizen can reach Zerika through his
link. Didn&rsquo;t you know that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;but she must get thousands
of people&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not really,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;If she doesn&rsquo;t
consider it worth her time, she destroys the person. This keeps the
amount of contact down quite a bit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh&mdash;My father never saw fit to mention that. I guess
he was afraid I might do it. In any case, I still don&rsquo;t see
who could and would have convinced her to withdraw the troops.
Morrolan, you&rsquo;re well respected around court. Will you try to
find out for me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Morrolan. &ldquo;As I have explained to
you, I will have nothing to do with any Jhereg war, directly or
indirectly.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah, okay.&rdquo; I was pleased to see Aliera shoot him
a brief look of disgust. It occurred to me then that the easiest
thing to do would be to create something real that would make the
Empress want to pull the troops out. What could it be? Civil
disturbance? Threat of an invasion of some sort?</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Kragar.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Yes, Vlad?</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>See if there was anything going on in the city that
would have called for Phoenix Guards to handle.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>Good idea, boss.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>That&rsquo;s what I pay myself for.</em>&rdquo;</p>

<p>Then I reached Fentor and had him check into any possible
external threats. With any luck, I&rsquo;d know within a day or
two. I turned my attention back to the others. Aliera and Sethra
were deep into another discussion.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Certainly,&rdquo; Sethra was saying. &ldquo;And as far as
I&rsquo;m concerned, let her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Aliera frowned. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re just getting on our feet,
Sethra. We can&rsquo;t afford to go off East with tens of thousands
of troops until we&rsquo;re sure the Empire is stable.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s this about?&rdquo; I asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You set off another argument, Vlad,&rdquo; Morrolan
explained. &ldquo;Aliera is opposed to Sethra the Younger&rsquo;s
conquering the East until the Empire is stable. Sethra the Younger
thinks that will make it stable, and our own Sethra,&rdquo; he
indicated her with his head, &ldquo;feels, as I do, that since
Sethra&mdash;the other one&mdash;wants to do it, why not? What harm
is there? They&rsquo;ll throw us out again in a few hundred or a
thousand years. That was why Kieron the Conqueror left them there
in the first place&mdash;so we&rsquo;d have someone to fight and
wouldn&rsquo;t tear ourselves apart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I could have said many things about this, but I let it go.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That isn&rsquo;t the point,&rdquo; said Aliera. &ldquo;If
we drain off enough resources, what happens if a <em>real</em>
enemy shows up? The Easterners are no threat to us
now&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;<em>What</em> real enemy?&rdquo; said Sethra.
&ldquo;There isn&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>I stood and left them to their argument. It couldn&rsquo;t have
anything to do with me, in any case.</p>

<br>
<hr size="0">
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide8.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide10.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

