<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Shadows Linger</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="shadows.css">
</head>
<body>

<div class="center"><small><a href="slide15.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide17.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">Chapter Fifteen:<br>
JUNIPER: DEATH OF A GANGSTER</h2>


<p>Shed had long, violent arguments with his mother. She never
accused him directly, but she left little doubt she suspected him
of hideous crimes.</p>

<p>He and Raven took turns nursing Asa.</p>

<p>Then it was time to face Krage. He did not want to go. He was
afraid Krage might have lumped him with Raven and Asa. But if he
didn&rsquo;t go, Krage would come to him. And Krage was looking for
people to hurt&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Shaky, Shed trudged up the
frozen street. Snow fell in lazy, fat flakes.</p>

<p>One of Krage&rsquo;s men ushered him into the presence. There
was no sign of Count, but word was out that the big man was
recovering. Too damned stupid to die, Shed thought.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, Shed,&rdquo; Krage said from the deeps of a huge
chair. &ldquo;How are you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Cold. How&rsquo;re you keeping?&rdquo; Krage worried him
when he was affable.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Be all right.&rdquo; Krage plucked at his bandages.
&ldquo;Close call. I was lucky. Come to make your
payment?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How much do I owe, all told? You buying up my debts, I
couldn&rsquo;t keep track.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You can pay out?&rdquo; Krage&rsquo;s eyes narrowed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. I have ten leva.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Krage sighed dramatically. &ldquo;You got enough. Didn&rsquo;t
think you had it in you, Shed. Well. You win some and you lose
some. It&rsquo;s eight and some change.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed counted out nine coins. Krage made change.
&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve had a run of luck this winter, Shed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure have.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You seen Asa?&rdquo; Krage&rsquo;s voice tautened.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not since three days ago. Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing important. We&rsquo;re even, Shed. But it&rsquo;s
time I collected that favor. Raven. I want him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Krage, I don&rsquo;t want to tell you your business, but
that&rsquo;s one man you&rsquo;d better leave alone. He&rsquo;s
crazy. He&rsquo;s nasty and he&rsquo;s tough. He&rsquo;d as soon
kill you as say hi. I don&rsquo;t mean no disrespect, but he acts
like you&rsquo;re a big joke.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The joke will be on him, Shed.&rdquo; Krage dragged
himself out of his chair, wincing. He grabbed his wound. &ldquo;The
joke will be on him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe next time he won&rsquo;t let you get away,
Krage.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Fear crossed Krage&rsquo;s features. &ldquo;Shed,
it&rsquo;s him or me. If I don&rsquo;t kill him, my business will
fall apart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where will it be if he kills you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Again that
flicker of fear. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have any choice. Be ready
when I need you, Shed. Soon now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed bobbed his head and retreated. He ought to get out of the
Buskin, he thought. He could afford it. But where would he go?
Krage could find him anywhere in Juniper. Running didn&rsquo;t
appeal, anyway. The Lily was home. He had to weather this. One or
the other would die, and either way he would be off the hook.</p>

<p>He was in the middle now. He hated Krage. Krage had humiliated
him for years, keeping him in debt, stealing food from his mouth
with ridiculous interest rates. On the other hand, Raven could
connect him with the black castle and crimes in the Enclosure.</p>

<p>The Custodians were on the hunt, looking for somebody spending a
lot of old money. Little had been said publicly, but Bullock being
on the case told Shed just how seriously they were taking the case
up the hill. He&rsquo;d nearly had a stroke when Bullock walked
into the Lily.</p>

<p>What had become of the passage money? Shed hadn&rsquo;t seen any
of it. He supposed Raven still had it. He and Raven were partners
now&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What did Krage say?&rdquo; Raven asked when Shed reached
the Lily.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wants me to help kill you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought so. Shed, it&rsquo;s late in the season.
It&rsquo;s time to send Krage up the hill. Which way are you
leaning, partner? Him or me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>
&ldquo;I&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Uh&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In the long run you&rsquo;re better off getting rid of
Krage. He&rsquo;d find a way to get the Lily eventually.&rdquo;</p>

<p>True, Shed reflected. &ldquo;All right. What do we
do?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Tomorrow, go tell him you think I&rsquo;ve been selling
bodies. That you think Asa was my partner. That you think I did Asa
in. Asa was your friend and you&rsquo;re upset. It&rsquo;ll all be
just near enough reality to confuse
him&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;What&rsquo;s the matter?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Always a trap. Raven was right. Krage would believe the story.
But Shed had hoped for a less direct role. If Raven screwed up,
Marron Shed would be found in a gutter with his throat cut.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. Night after tomorrow night, I&rsquo;ll go out.
You run to tell Krage. I&rsquo;ll let his men track me. Krage will
want to be in at the kill. I&rsquo;ll ambush him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You did that before, didn&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;ll come anyway. He&rsquo;s stupid.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed swallowed. &ldquo;That isn&rsquo;t a plan that does much
for my nerves.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your nerves aren&rsquo;t my problem, Shed. They&rsquo;re
yours. You lost them. Only you can find them again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Krage bought Shed&rsquo;s story. He was ecstatic because Raven
was such a villain. &ldquo;If I didn&rsquo;t want him myself,
I&rsquo;d yell for the Custodians. You did good, Shed. I should
have suspected Asa. He never brought no news worth
hearing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed whined, &ldquo;Who would buy bodies, Krage?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Krage
grinned. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry your ugly head. Let me know next
time he goes on one of his jaunts. We&rsquo;ll rig up a little
surprise.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Next night Shed reported according to plan. And suffered all the
disappointment he expected of life. Krage insisted he join the
hunt.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What good would I be, Krage? I&rsquo;m not even armed.
And he&rsquo;s one tough nut. You won&rsquo;t take him without a
fight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t expect to. You&rsquo;re coming along just
in case.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In case?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In case there&rsquo;s a trap in this and I want to lay
hands on you fast.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed shuddered, whined, &ldquo;I done right by you. Don&rsquo;t
I always do right by you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You always do what a coward would. Which is why I
don&rsquo;t trust you. Anybody can scare you. And you had all that
money. It occurs to me you might be in the racket with
Raven.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed went cold. Krage donned his coat. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go,
Shed. Stay right beside me. You try to wander off, I&rsquo;ll kill
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed started shaking. He was dead. All he had gone through to
get Krage off his back&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;It wasn&rsquo;t
fair. It just wasn&rsquo;t fair. Nothing ever worked for him. He
stumbled into the street, wondering what he could do and knowing
there was no escape.</p>

<p>Tears froze on his cheeks.</p>

<p>No exit. If he fled, Krage would be warned. If he did not, Krage
would kill him when Raven sprang his ambush. What was his mother
going to do?</p>

<p>He had to do something. Had to find some guts, make a decision,
act. He couldn&rsquo;t surrender to fate and hope for luck. That
meant the Catacombs or black castle before dawn.</p>

<p>He had lied to Krage. He had a butcher knife up his left sleeve.
He had put it there out of sheer bravado. Krage hadn&rsquo;t
searched him. Old Shed armed? Ha! Not likely. He might get himself
hurt.</p>

<p>Old Shed did go armed sometimes, but he never advertised the
fact. The knife did wonders for his confidence.</p>

<p>He could tell himself he would use it, and he&rsquo;d believe
the lie long enough to get by, but in any tight spot he would let
fate run its course.</p>

<p>His fate was sealed&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Unless he whipped
it heads-up, no holds barred.</p>

<p>How?</p>

<p>Krage&rsquo;s men were amused by his terror. There were six of
them&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;Then there were
seven&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;and eight, as those tracking Raven
reported in. Could he hope to beat those odds? Raven himself
didn&rsquo;t stand a chance.</p>

<p>You are a dead man, a tiny voice whispered, over and over. Dead
man. Dead man.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s working his way down Chandler&rsquo;s,&rdquo;
a shadow reported. &ldquo;Going into all the little
alleyways.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Krage asked Shed, &ldquo;Think he&rsquo;ll find anything this
late in the winter? The weaklings have all died.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed shrugged. &ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t know.&rdquo; He rubbed
his left arm against his side. The knife&rsquo;s presence helped,
but not much.</p>

<p>His terror peaked and began to recede. His mind cooled to an
unemotional numbness. Fear in abeyance, he tried to find the unseen
exit.</p>

<p>Again someone loomed out of the darkness, reported they were a
hundred feet from Raven&rsquo;s wagon. Raven had gone into an alley
ten minutes ago. He hadn&rsquo;t come out.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He spot you?&rdquo; Krage growled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think so. But you never know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Krage eyed Shed. &ldquo;Shed, would he abandon his team and
wagon?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How would I know?&rdquo; Shed squeaked. &ldquo;Maybe he
found something.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s take a look.&rdquo; They moved to the alley,
one of countless dead-end breezeways opening off Chandler&rsquo;s
Lane. Krage stared into the darkness, head canted slightly.
&ldquo;Quiet as the Catacombs. Check it out, Luke.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Boss?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Take it easy, Luke. Old Shed is going to be right behind
you. Won&rsquo;t you, Shed?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Krage&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Move out!&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed shambled forward. Luke advanced cautiously, wicked knife
probing the darkness. Shed tried to talk to him. &ldquo;Shut
up!&rdquo; he snarled. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you have a
weapon?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No,&rdquo; Shed lied. He glanced back. It was just the
two of them. They reached the dead end. No Raven.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll
be damned,&rdquo; Luke said. &ldquo;How did he get out?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. Let&rsquo;s find out.&rdquo; This
might be his chance.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Here we go,&rdquo; Luke said. &ldquo;He climbed this
downspout.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed&rsquo;s guts knotted. His throat tightened. &ldquo;Give it
a try. Maybe we can follow him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo; Luke started up.</p>

<p>Shed didn&rsquo;t think about it. The butcher knife materialized
in his hand. His hand slammed forward. Luke arched back, dropped.
Shed jumped on him, jammed a palm against his mouth, held on for
the minute it took him to die. He backed away, unable to believe
he&rsquo;d done it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s going on back there?&rdquo;
Krage demanded.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Can&rsquo;t find anything,&rdquo; Shed
yelled. He dragged Luke against a wall, buried him under trash and
snow, ran to the downspout.</p>

<p>Krage&rsquo;s approach made a marvelous incentive. He grunted,
strained, popped a muscle, reached the roof. It consisted of a
skirt two feet wide set at a shallow angle, then twelve feet rising
at forty-five degrees, above which the roof was flat. Shed leaned
against the steep slate, panting, still unable to believe that he
had killed a man. He heard voices below, began moving sideways.</p>

<p>Someone snarled, &ldquo;They&rsquo;re gone, Krage. No Raven. No
Luke and no Shed, either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That bastard. I knew he was setting me up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why did Luke go with him, then?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hell, I don&rsquo;t know. Don&rsquo;t stand there. Look
around They got out of here somehow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey. Over here. Somebody went up this spout. Maybe
they&rsquo;re after Raven.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Climb the damned thing. Find out. Luke! Shed!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Over here,&rdquo; a voice called. Shed froze. What the
hell? Raven? Had to be Raven.</p>

<p>He inched along, trying to fake himself into believing there
wasn&rsquo;t thirty-five feet of nothing behind his heels. He
reached a ridged corner where he could clamber up to the flat
top.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Over here. I think we got him cornered.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Get up there, you bastards!&rdquo; Krage raged.</p>

<p>Lying motionless on the cold, icy tar, Shed watched two shadows
appear on the skirt and begin easing toward the voice. A squeal of
metal and vicious cursing proclaimed the fate of a third climber.
&ldquo;Twisted my ankle, Krage,&rdquo; the man complained.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come on,&rdquo; Krage growled. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll find
another way up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Run while you got the chance, Shed thought. Go home and hole up
till it&rsquo;s over. But he could not. He slid down to the skirt
and crept after Krage&rsquo;s men.</p>

<p>Someone cried out, scrabbled for a hold, plunged into the
darkness between buildings. Krage shouted. Nobody answered.</p>

<p>Shed crossed to the roof next door. It was flat and forested
with chimneys. &ldquo;Raven?&rdquo; he called softly.
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s me. Shed.&rdquo; He touched the knife in his
sleeve, still unable to believe that he&rsquo;d used it.</p>

<p>A shape materialized. Shed settled into a sitting position, arms
around his knees. &ldquo;What now?&rdquo; he asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;re you doing here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Krage dragged me along. I was supposed to be the first
one dead if it was a trap.&rdquo; He told Raven what he had
done.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Damn! You&rsquo;ve got guts after all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He backed me into a corner. What now?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The odds are getting better. Let me think about
it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Krage shouted out in Chandler&rsquo;s Lane. Raven yelled back,
&ldquo;Over here! We&rsquo;re right behind him.&rdquo; He told
Shed: &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know how long I can fool him. I was
going to pick them off one at a time. I didn&rsquo;t know
he&rsquo;d bring an army.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My nerves are shot,&rdquo; Shed said. Heights were
another of the thousand things that terrified him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hang on. It&rsquo;s a long way from over.&rdquo; Raven
yelled, &ldquo;Cut him off, why don&rsquo;t you?&rdquo; He took
off. &ldquo;Come on, Shed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed could not keep up. He wasn&rsquo;t as nimble as Raven.</p>

<p>A shape loomed out of the darkness. He squeaked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That you, Shed?&rdquo; It was one of Krage&rsquo;s men.
Shed&rsquo;s heartbeat doubled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah. You seen Raven?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No. Where&rsquo;s Luke?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Damnit, he was headed right at you. How could you miss
him? Look here.&rdquo; Shed indicated disturbances in traces of
snow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Look, man, I didn&rsquo;t see him. Don&rsquo;t come on at
me like you was Krage. I&rsquo;ll kick your ass up around your
ears.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. All right. Calm down. I&rsquo;m scared and I
want to get it over. Luke fell off. Back there. Slipped on some ice
or something. Be careful.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I heard. Sounded like Milt, though. I&rsquo;d have sworn
it was Milt. This is stupid. He can pick us off up here. We ought
to back off and try something else.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uhn-uh. I want him now. I don&rsquo;t want him tracking
me down tomorrow.&rdquo; Shed was amazed. How easily the lies came!
Silently, he cursed the man because he wouldn&rsquo;t turn his
back. &ldquo;You got an extra knife or something?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You? Use a knife? Come on. Stick with me, Shed.
I&rsquo;ll look out for you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sure. Look, the trail goes that way. Let&rsquo;s get it
done.&rdquo; The man turned to examine Raven&rsquo;s tracks. Shed
drew his knife and hit him hard. The man let out a yell, twisted.
The knife broke. Shed almost pitched off the roof. His victim did.
People shouted questions. Krage and his men all seemed to be on the
rooftops now.</p>

<p>When Shed stopped shaking, he started moving again, trying to
recall the layout of the neighborhood. He wanted to get down and
head home. Raven could finish this insanity.</p>

<p>Shed ran into Krage on the next roof. &ldquo;Krage!&rdquo; he
whined. &ldquo;God! Let me out of here! He&rsquo;ll kill us
all!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll kill you, Shed. It was a trap, wasn&rsquo;t
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Krage, no!&rdquo; What could he do? He didn&rsquo;t have
the butcher knife now. Fake. Whine and fake. &ldquo;Krage, you got
to get out of here. He already got Luke and Milt and somebody else.
He would&rsquo;ve gotten me when he got Luke, except he fell down
and I got away&mdash;only he caught up again when I was talking to one of
your guys right over there. They got fighting, and one of them went
off the edge; I don&rsquo;t know which, but I bet it wasn&rsquo;t
Raven. We got to get down from here, on account of we can&rsquo;t
tell who we&rsquo;re running into so we got to be careful. I could
have had him this last time, only I didn&rsquo;t have a weapon and
we didn&rsquo;t know it wasn&rsquo;t one of our own guys coming.
Raven don&rsquo;t have that problem. Anybody he sees he knows is an
enemy, so he don&rsquo;t have to be so
careful&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up, Shed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Krage was buying it. Shed talked a little louder, hoping Raven
would hear, come, and finish it.</p>

<p>There was a cry across the rooftops. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s
Teskus,&rdquo; Krage growled. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s four.
Right?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed bobbed his head. &ldquo;That we know about. Maybe
there&rsquo;s only you and me now. Krage, we should get out of here
before he finds us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Might be something to what you say, Shed. Might be. We
shouldn&rsquo;t have come up here. Come on.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed followed, keeping up the chatter. &ldquo;It was
Luke&rsquo;s idea. He thought he&rsquo;d make points with you. See,
we saw him at the top of this drainspout and he didn&rsquo;t see
us, so Luke said why don&rsquo;t we go after him and get him, and
old Krage will&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up, Shed. For God&rsquo;s sake, shut up. Your voice
sickens me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, sir, Mr. Krage. Only I can&rsquo;t. I&rsquo;m so
scared&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t, I&rsquo;ll shut you up permanent. You
won&rsquo;t have to worry about Raven.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed stopped talking. He had pushed as far as he dared.</p>

<p>Krage halted a short time later. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll set an
ambush near his wagon. He&rsquo;ll come back for it, won&rsquo;t
he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I expect so, Mr. Krage. But what good will I be? I mean,
I don&rsquo;t have a weapon, and wouldn&rsquo;t know how to use one
if I did.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up. You&rsquo;re right. You&rsquo;re not much good,
Shed. But I think you&rsquo;ll do fine as a distraction. You get
his attention. Talk to him. I&rsquo;ll hit him from
behind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Krage&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up.&rdquo; Krage rolled over the side of the
building, clung to the parapet while getting a solid foothold. Shed
leaned forward. Three storeys to the ground.</p>

<p>He kicked Krage&rsquo;s fingers. Krage cursed, scrabbled for a
fresh hold, missed, dropped, yelled, hit with a muted thump. Shed
watched his vague shape twitch, become still.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I did it again.&rdquo; He started shaking.
&ldquo;Can&rsquo;t stay here. His men might find me.&rdquo; He
swung over the parapet and monkeyed down the side of the building,
more afraid of being caught than of falling.</p>

<p>Krage was still breathing. In fact, he was conscious but
paralyzed. &ldquo;You were right, Krage. It was a trap. You
shouldn&rsquo;t have pushed me. You made me hate you more than I
was scared of you.&rdquo; He looked around. It wasn&rsquo;t as late
as he had thought. The rooftop hunt hadn&rsquo;t lasted long. Where
was Raven, anyway?</p>

<p>Somebody had to clean up. He grabbed Krage, dragged him toward
Raven&rsquo;s wagon. Krage squealed. For a moment Shed was afraid
someone would investigate. No one did. This was the Buskin.</p>

<p>Krage screamed when Shed hoisted him into the wagon.
&ldquo;Comfy, Krage?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He retrieved Luke next, then went seeking other bodies. He found
another three. None were Raven. He muttered, &ldquo;If he
doesn&rsquo;t show in a half hour, I&rsquo;ll take them up myself
and the hell with him.&rdquo; Then: &ldquo;What&rsquo;s come over
you, Marron Shed? Letting this go to your head? So you found some
guts. So what? That don&rsquo;t make you no Raven.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Someone was coming. He snatched a booty dagger, faded into a
shadow.</p>

<p>Raven tumbled a body into the wagon. &ldquo;How the
hell?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I collected them,&rdquo; Shed explained.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Who are they?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Krage and his men.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought he ran for it. Figured I had to go through it
all again. What happened?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed explained. Raven shook his head in disbelief. &ldquo;You?
Shed?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I guess there&rsquo;s only so much they can scare
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True. But I never thought you&rsquo;d figure it out.
Shed, you amaze me. Disappoint me, too, some. I wanted Krage
myself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s him making the noise. He&rsquo;s got a
broken back or something. Kill him if you want.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s worth more alive.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Shed nodded. Poor Krage. &ldquo;Where are the rest of
them?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s one on the roof. Guess the other one got
away.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Damn. That means it&rsquo;s not over.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;We can get him later.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Meanwhile, he goes and gets the others and we have them
all after us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You think they&rsquo;d risk their lives to avenge Krage?
No way. They&rsquo;ll be fighting among themselves. Trying to take
over. Wait here. I&rsquo;ll get the other one.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hurry up,&rdquo; Shed said. The reaction was catching up.
He had survived. The old Shed was coming back, dragging all his
hysteria with him.</p>

<p>Coming down from the castle, with pink and purple strands of
dawn smearing the gaps between the Wolanders, Shed asked,
&ldquo;Why is he screaming?&rdquo;</p>

<p>The tall being had laughed and paid a hundred twenty leva for
Krage. His shrieks could still be heard.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. Don&rsquo;t look back, Shed. Do what
you have to and move on.&rdquo; And, a moment later:
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m glad it&rsquo;s over.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Over? What do you mean?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That was my last visit.&rdquo; Raven patted his pocket.
&ldquo;I have enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Me, too. I&rsquo;m out of debt. I can refurbish the Lily,
set my mother up in her own place, and have plenty to make it next
winter, no matter what business is like. I&rsquo;m going to forget
that castle exists.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think so, Shed. You want to get away from
it, better come with me. It&rsquo;ll always be calling when you
want some fast money.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I couldn&rsquo;t leave. I have to look out for my
mother.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right. I warned you.&rdquo; Then Raven asked,
&ldquo;What about Asa? He&rsquo;s going to be a problem. The
Custodians are going to keep looking till they find the people who
raided the Catacombs. He&rsquo;s the weak link.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can handle Asa.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I hope so, Shed. I hope so.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Krage&rsquo;s disappearance was the talk of the Buskin. Shed
played a baffled role, claiming he knew nothing, despite rumors to
the contrary. His story held up. He was Shed the coward. The one
man who knew differently did not contradict him.</p>

<p>The hard part was facing his mother. Old June said nothing, but
her blind stare was accusing. She made him feel evil, an infidel,
and disowned in the secret reaches of her mind. The gap had become
unbridgable.</p>
 <br>
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide15.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide17.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

