<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Bleak Seasons</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="bleak.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide32.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide34.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<h2 class="chapter">31</h2>

<p>My in-laws make very little effort to improve anyone&rsquo;s
opinion of Nyueng Bao. Mother Gota, in particular, is a major pain
in the ass. The old battleaxe barely tolerates even me and that
only because the alternative is to lose her daughter entirely. She
is very nasty toward the Old Man.</p>

<p>Still, Sarie and I rated enough for Croaker to insist we swap
quarters when her folks showed up last month, in town slumming from
their glamorous swamps. But they won&rsquo;t make it back to
paradise if Mother Gota doesn&rsquo;t control her lip in the
street.</p>

<p>The Old Man never reacts to her constant complaints. He told me,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve had thirty years of Goblin and One-Eye. One
crabby old woman hurting from gout and arthritis is nothing. You
did say she&rsquo;s only here for a few weeks, didn&rsquo;t
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Right. I did say that. I wondered how those words would taste
with soy sauce. Or maybe a lot of curry.</p>

<p>Now that Lady is in the south most of the time, emptying her
cornucopia of rage onto the Shadowlands, Croaker has no need for a
large apartment. Our old space was little more than a monk&rsquo;s
cell. There is just room enough for him, Lady when she visits, and
a cradle that was given to Lady by a man named Ram who later died
trying to protect her and her baby from Narayan Singh. Ram made
that cradle himself. Most likely he died because, like almost every
man who spends much time around Lady, he fell for the wrong
woman.</p>

<p>Croaker gave me his apartment, all right, but it came with
limitations. I could not turn it into the new home of the Nyueng
Bao. Sahra and Thai Dei belonged. Mother Gota and Uncle Doj were
welcome for visits. And not one freeloading cousin or nephew
more.</p>

<p>People who accuse the Captain of using his position to feather
his nest ought to take a close look at the nest. The Liberator, Mr.
By Golly Military Despot of all the Taglians and their many
conquests and dependencies, lives just the way he did back when he
was only the Company physician and Annalist.</p>

<p>Also, he moved me to provide me adequate work space. He sets
great store by these Annals.</p>

<p>My books are not coming out so good. I don&rsquo;t always get
stuff down the best way. In his time, when he was on the mark,
Croaker was really good. I can&rsquo;t help comparing my stuff to
his. When he tried to be Captain and Annalist at the same time his
work suffered. And Lady&rsquo;s writing strikes me as too direct,
too curt, and sometimes mildly self-indulgent. Neither was honest
all the time and neither considered trying to be consistent with
the other, with their predecessors, or even with their own earlier
selves. If you read either one closely and you spot some of their
slips, neither will admit any screwup. If Croaker says that it is
eight hundred miles from Taglios to Shadowcatch and Lady calls it
four hundred, who is correct? Both say they are. Lady says the
discrepancy is because they grew up in different places and times
where different weights and measures were in use.</p>

<p>What about character? They for sure see with different eyes
there. You will never catch Croaker portraying a Willow Swan who is
not bitching about something. Lady makes Swan energetic and
rattle-mouthed and a lot more mellow. And the difference could be
that both Croaker and Lady know Swan&rsquo;s interest in Lady is
not brotherly.</p>

<p>And consider how they saw Smoke. You wouldn&rsquo;t think they
they were writing about the same animal, they looked at that
traitor so differently. Then there is Mogaba. And Blade. Both
blackhearted traitors, too. There is nothing in Croaker&rsquo;s
Annals because he was no longer writing when Blade deserted but in
daily life, constantly, he shows you that he hates Blade with a
blue-assed passion, on no rational basis. Meantime, he seems almost
willing to forgive Mogaba. Lady sees those two the other way
around. She would broil Mogaba right in the same pot with Narayan
and probably let Blade go. Blade was another case like Ram and
Swan. I guess you don&rsquo;t need to agree on everything to be
lovers. They wrote differently, too. Croaker mostly kept his Annals
as he went along, then went back later to fill in after he heard
from other sources. He tended to fictionalize his secondary
viewpoints, too, so his Annals are not always absolutely
straightforward history.</p>

<p>Lady wrote her entire book after the fact, from memory, while
she was laid up waiting to have her baby. Her alternate viewpoint
material is mainly secondhand hearsay. I am replacing her more
dubious stuff with material I consider more accurate while I am in
the process of putting all the confused stuff into a uniform
format.</p>

<p>Lady is not always pleased with my efforts, he understated.</p>

<p>My major fault is getting trapped in elaborate digressions. I
have trouble leaving things out. I spent some time with the
official historians at Taglios&rsquo;s royal library and those guys
assured me that the real keys to history are the details. Like the
entire course of history can veer sharply because one man gets
dinged by a random arrow during a minor skirmish.</p>

<p>My writing room is fifteen feet by twenty-two. That gives me
space for all my references, for copies of the old Annals, and for
a large trestle table where I work on several projects at once. And
there is an acre of floor space left for Thai Dei and Uncle
Doj.</p>

<p>While I write and study and revise he and Thai Dei clack away
with wooden practice swords or squeal and kick and bounce off the
walls. Whenever one of them lands in my space I toss him back. They
are amazingly good at what they do&mdash;they ought to be with all that
practice&mdash;but I think they are more likely to hurt each other than
any seriously large person, like our Old Crew guys.</p>

<p>I like this job. It beats hell out of being standardbearer
though I am stuck with that, too, still. The standardbearer is
always the first guy into a scrape and he always has one hand tied
up keeping a bigass pole from falling over.</p>

<p>I worry about not catching details the way Croaker did. And I
envy him his naturally sardonic tone. He claims he did good only
because he had the time. In those days the Black Company was just a
raggedyass gang sneaking around the edge of things and there
wasn&rsquo;t much going on. Nowadays we are in the deep shit all
the time. I don&rsquo;t like that. Neither does the Captain.</p>

<p>I cannot imagine a man less pleased about having the power that
has fallen into his lap, mostly by default. He keeps it and uses it
only because he doesn&rsquo;t believe anyone else will take the
Company where he is convinced that it has to go.</p>

<p>I managed to get along for several hours without falling down a
well into the past. I wasn&rsquo;t feeling badly. Sarie was in an
excellent mood despite all her mother could do to ruin our day. I
was lost in my work, as comfortable with existence as ever I
get.</p>

<p>Somebody came to the door.</p>

<p>Sarie showed the Captain into the apartment. Uncle Doj and Thai
Dei continued clacking away. Croaker watched for a minute.
&ldquo;Unusual,&rdquo; he said. He did not sound impressed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not military,&rdquo; I told him.
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s fencing for loners. Nyueng Bao are big on
lone-wolf heroes.&rdquo; Not so the Old Man. His belief that you
need brothers to guard your back amounts to a religious
conviction.</p>

<p>Nyueng Bao fencing technique consists of brief but intense
flurries of attack and defense separated by inactive periods during
which the fighters freeze in odd stances, shifting almost
imperceptibly as they try to anticipate one another.</p>

<p>Uncle Doj is very good.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll grant you, they&rsquo;re graceful, Murgen.
Almost like hutsch dancers.&rdquo;</p>

<p>By marrying into Sarie&rsquo;s clan I bought into Nyueng Bao
fighting styles. No choice, really. Uncle Doj insisted. I am not
terribly interested but I go along to keep the peace. And it is
good exercise. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all stylized, Captain. Every
stance and stroke has its name.&rdquo; Which I consider a weakness.
Any fighter that set in his ways ought to be easy meat for an
innovator.</p>

<p>On the other hand, I did see Uncle Doj deal with real enemies at
Dejagore.</p>

<p>I changed languages. &ldquo;Uncle, will you permit my Captain to
meet Ash Wand?&rdquo; They had taken the measure of one another
long enough.</p>

<p>Ash Wand is Uncle Doj&rsquo;s sword. He calls it his soul. He
treats it better than he would any mistress.</p>

<p>Uncle Doj disengaged from Thai Dei, bowed slightly, departed. In
moments he was back with a monster sword. It was three feet long.
He drew it carefully, presented it to Croaker lying along his left
forearm, where the steel would not contact moist or oily skin. He
bowed slightly as he did so.</p>

<p>He wanted us to believe he spoke no Taglian, A vain pretense. I
knew him back when he was fluent.</p>

<p>Croaker knew something about Nyueng Bao customs. He accepted Ash
Wand with proper care and courtesy, as though deeply honored.</p>

<p>Uncle Doj ate that up.</p>

<p>Croaker grasped the two-hand hilt clumsily. On purpose, I
suspect. Uncle Doj darted in to demonstrate the proper grip, the
way he does with me during every training session. That old boy is
spry. He has ten years on Croaker but moves more easily than I do.
And he possesses remarkable patience.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Fine balance,&rdquo; the Captain said in Taglian. It
would not surprise me to learn that he had picked up Nyueng Bao,
though. He has an easy way with languages. &ldquo;But this had
better be superior steel.&rdquo; Because the blade was thin and
narrow.</p>

<p>I told him, &ldquo;He says it&rsquo;s four hundred years old and
will cut plate armor. I guarantee it cuts people just fine. I saw
him use it more than once.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;During the siege.&rdquo; Croaker studied the blade near
the sword&rsquo;s hilt. &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hallmark of Dinh Luc Doc.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Eyes suddenly narrow, usually stolid expression shoved aside by
surprise, Uncle Doj reclaimed his lover quickly. That Croaker might
know something about Nyueng Bao swordsmiths apparently troubled
him. Croaker might not be nearly as stupid as foreigners were
supposed to be.</p>

<p>Uncle Doj harvested one of his feeble crops of hair, drew it
across Ash Wand&rsquo;s edge with predictable results. Croaker
observed, &ldquo;A man could get cut and never know it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It happens,&rdquo; I told him. &ldquo;You wanted
something?&rdquo; Sarie brought tea. The Old Man accepted even
though he doesn&rsquo;t like tea. He watched me watch her, amused.
Whenever Sahra is in a room I have trouble paying attention to
anything else. She gets more beautiful every time I see her. I
cannot believe my luck. I keep being scared that I will wake up.
Cold shivers.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You have a definite prize there, Murgen.&rdquo; Croaker
had told me so before. He approved of Sarie. It was her family that
troubled him. &ldquo;How come you married the whole
kaboodle?&rdquo; For that he shifted to Forsberger. None of the
others spoke that northern tongue.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You had to be there.&rdquo; Which is really all you can
say about Dejagore. The Nyueng Bao and Old Crew became alloyed by
the living nightmare.</p>

<p>Mother Gota materialized. All four feet ten inches of bile. She
glared at the Captain. &ldquo;Aha! The great man himself!&rdquo;
Her Taglian is an abomination but she refuses to believe that. Those
who fail to understand her do so on purpose, to mock her.</p>

<p>She circled Croaker, walking her bowlegged walk. Nearly as wide
as she is tall, without being really fat, ugly, waddling that
waddle, she looked like a miniature troll. And her own people call
her The Troll behind her back. And she has the personality. She
could test the patience of a stone.</p>

<p>Thai Dei and Sahra were very late children. I pray my wife will
not come to resemble her mother later, in character or physically.
Like her grandmother would be fine, though.</p>

<p>Cold in here.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why so hard you push my Sahra&rsquo;s man, ho, Mr. So
High and Mighty Liberator?&rdquo; She hawked and spat to one side,
the meaning of that no different to Nyueng Bao than anyone else.
She rattled faster and faster. The faster she yakked the faster she
waddled. &ldquo;You think maybe he slave be? Warrior not? No time
for grandmother to make of me, him always away to do for
you?&rdquo; She hawked and blank spat again.</p>

<p>She was a grandmother all right. But none were mine and none
were alive anymore. I didn&rsquo;t remind her. No need attracting
her attention.</p>

<p>An hour earlier she had climbed all over me because I was a no
good bonehead lackwit layabout who wasted all his time reading and
writing. Hardly the sort of thing a grown man does with his
time.</p>

<p>Nothing ever satisfies Mother Gota. Croaker says that is because
she hurts all the time. He pretended he could not fathom her broken
Taglian. &ldquo;Yes, it really is lovely weather. For this time of
year. The agricultural specialists tell me we will make two crops
this year. Do you think you&rsquo;ll be able to double harvest your
rice?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hawk and spit, then a lapse into ferocious Nyueng Bao
liberally spiced with imaginative epithets, not all of them native
to her birth tongue. Mother Gota hates being humored or ignored
more than she hates everything else.</p>

<p>Somebody pounded on my door. Sarie was busy doing something
somewhere that kept her from being close enough to her mother to
become embarrassed. I went. I found One-Eye stinking up the
hallway. The little wizard asked, &ldquo;How you doing, Kid?
Here.&rdquo; He shoved a smelly, ragged, grubby bundle of papers
into my hands. &ldquo;The Old Man here ?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What kind of sorcerer are you if you don&rsquo;t know the
answer to that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A lazy sorcerer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I stepped aside. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s this mess?&rdquo; I lifted
the bundle.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Them papers you been after me about. My notes and
Annals.&rdquo; He ambled over to the Captain.</p>

<p>I stared down at the mess in my hands. Some of the papers were
moldy. Some were waterstained. That was One-Eye. Four years late. I
hoped the little rat did not hang around. He would shed lice and
fleas. He takes a bath only if he gets drunk and falls in a canal.
And that damned hat&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;I am going to burn it
someday.</p>

<p>One-Eye whispered to the Captain. The Captain whispered back.
Mother Gota tried to eavesdrop. They changed to a language she did
not know. She sucked in a bushel of air and went to work.</p>

<p>One-Eye stopped talking and stared at her. This was their first
encounter, close up and personal.</p>

<p>He grinned.</p>

<p>She did not faze him. He was two hundred years old. He had had
obnoxious down to a fine art generations before Mother Gota was
born. He gave her a thumbs up, sidled over to me grinning like a
kid who had stubbed his toe on the pot at the end of the rainbow.
In Taglian he asked, &ldquo;Want to make a formal introduction
here, Kid? I love her! She&rsquo;s great! Everything I&rsquo;ve
ever heard. She&rsquo;s perfect. Give us a kiss here,
lover.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Maybe it was because Mother Gota was the only woman in Taglios
shorter than him.</p>

<p>That was the only time I ever saw my mother-in-law at a loss for
words.</p>

<p>Thai Dei and Uncle Doj seemed taken aback, too. One-Eye stalked
Mother Gota around the room. Finally, she fled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perfect!&rdquo; One-Eye crowed. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s
absolutely perfect! The woman of my dreams. Are you ready,
Captain?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Was he high on something?</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo; Croaker separated himself from his barely
tasted tea. &ldquo;Murgen, I want you to come with us. It&rsquo;s
time to teach you some new tricks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>I started to shake my head. I don&rsquo;t know why, Sarie
slipped her arm around me. She was back now, avoiding her mother by
being where I was. She felt my reluctance, squeezed my arm. She
looked up at me with those gorgeous almond eyes, asking why I was
troubled.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo; I figured we were going to
interrogate the red-hand Deceiver. That was not work I would
enjoy.</p>

<p>Uncle Doj astonished me by asking, &ldquo;May I accompany you,
husband of my niece?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why?&rdquo; I blurted.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wish to inform my curiosity about what it is you people
do.&rdquo; He spoke to me slowly, as though to an idiot. I do
suffer from a severe birth defect, by his thinking. I was not
born Nyueng Bao.</p>

<p>At least he does not call me Bone Warrior and Stone Soldier
anymore.</p>

<p>I never did figure that out.</p>

<p>I translated for the Old Man. He didn&rsquo;t bat an eye.
&ldquo;Sure, Murgen. Why not? But let&rsquo;s get going before we
all die of old age.&rdquo;</p>

<p>What the hell? This was the guy who was sure the Nyueng Bao were
up to no good.</p>

<p>I looked at the mass of paper One-Eye passed off on me. It
smelled of mildew. I would try to make something of it later. If
anything could be made of it. Knowing One-Eye it could well be
written in a language he no longer remembered.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide32.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide34.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

