<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>A Time of Omens</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="omens.css">
</head>
<body>

<div class="center"><small><a href="slide5.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide7.html">next</a></small></div>
<hr>
<div class="left"><img alt="Section" src="section.jpg" height=
"771" width="201"></div>
<div class="left"><img alt="Section" src="section2.jpg" height=
"797" width="201"></div>
<h1 class="chap2">present</h1>
<br>
<p class="quote"><em>Consider the roots of a simple and mundane action, for instance,
buying bread for your breakfast. A farmer has grown the grain in a
field carved from wilderness by his ancestors; in the ancient city
a miller has ground the flour and a baker prepared the loaf; the
vendor has transported it to your house in a cart built by a
cartwright and his apprentices. Even the donkey that draws the cart,
what stories could she not tell if you could decipher her braying?
And then you yourself hand over a coin of copper dug from the very
heart of the earth, you who have risen from a bed of dreams and
darkness to stand in the light of the vast and terrifying sun. Are
there not a thousand strands woven together into this tapestry of a
morning meal? How then can you expect that the omens of great
events should be easy to unravel?</em></p>
<div class="center">
<p class="quote"><em><strong>Pseudo-Iamblichus Scroll</strong></em></p>
</div>
<h1 class="chap2"><em>1</em>.</h1>

<h2 class="chap2"><em>The Knave of Flowers</em></h2>

<h3 class="quote"><em>Bardek, 1098</em></h3>
<br>
<p class="noindent">Down in the public square Luvilae&rsquo;s market spread out, a
lake of brightly colored sunshades and little stalls. Acrobats
performed on improvised platforms; minstrels sat in the shade of
trees and played for coppers. Wearing bronze helmets topped with
red plumes, the archon&rsquo;s men strolled through in pairs to
keep order. A warm breeze carried the scents of incense and roast
pork, flowered perfumes and spiced vegetables. Off to one side,
behind a line of stalls that sold blue and purple pottery, a
fortune-teller was doing a reading for a client. In the midst of
striped and faded blue sunshades and curtains, the two women
haggled over the price from either side of a low table. Draped in
black as befitted her trade in omens, the elderly one sank onto her
cushions with a moist sigh. Dressed like a boy in a linen tunic and
sandals, the young woman knelt on a pounded bark mat and ran both
hands through her mop of frizzy black hair before she settled back
on her heels. Wheezing a little in the heat, Akantha took an ebony
box from under the table and slid out the ninety-six tiles of
polished bone. Most fell facedown, a good omen, but as Akantha
turned the few wayward tiles over, one slid to the ground. With a
frown she snatched it back.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Help me mix them up, little one. Bring them over to the
right side of the table&mdash;my right, that is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka laid both hands flat on the layer of tiles and mixed with
a sound like thunder.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Enough,&rdquo; Akantha said at last. &ldquo;Draw five to
start with.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The old woman turned the chosen tiles faceup to form a square.
The two of spears and the four of golds appeared, followed by three
different tiles from the suit of flowers: the knave, the six, and
finally the princess, which Akantha laid in the center of the
square.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is that me?&rdquo; Marka asked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It might be, it might be&mdash;or else, you will someday
serve the princess. Not sure which yet. But I don&rsquo;t much like
the look of this knave. Hum. A lover, maybe; he&rsquo;s the same
suit, but he&rsquo;s no prince, is he? Watch out for him, girl. I
do like the look of this six. Good fortune, girl, very good fortune
indeed, though not without some trouble.&rdquo; She laid a long and
bony forefinger on the two of spears. &ldquo;But nothing your wits
won&rsquo;t be able to get you out of, I&rsquo;d say. Three flowers
in the first draw is very lucky, very lucky. Now draw me four
groups of three.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Each group formed a triangle. For a long time Akantha sucked her
teeth in silence while she studied the layout; once or twice she
started to speak, then merely shook her head. Marka knew just
enough about the tiles to understand that the expanded reading
simply wasn&rsquo;t coalescing into a whole. Omens of splendid good
luck lay right next to signifiers of the grimmest bad fortune,
while the minor, numbered tiles contradicted all the important
trumps around them. The first was the three of flowers.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, then, the reading should be a good one.
Here&rsquo;s a flower coming up from the Earth. Now, we&rsquo;ve
got the nine of swords for Air, so you&rsquo;re in for a bit of
rough sailing, sure enough. And now for Water we&rsquo;ve got the
queen of birds, which is not the kind of location I&rsquo;d like to see
for that tile. No, water and birds aren&rsquo;t a happy marriage,
girl, not at all. But well, look at this! For Fire here&rsquo;s the
ten of golds! Very good luck, the best there is. And finally, for
the Ether, we have the&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the prince of
Swords? Oh, by the Star Goddesses themselves! This isn&rsquo;t
making sense again. Listen, young Marka, sometimes the gods just
don&rsquo;t want us to know the future. That&rsquo;s all there is
to it. Don&rsquo;t you pay one bit of attention to anything
I&rsquo;ve said this morning, and as for your, money, come back
after dark and I&rsquo;ll try again for free. Sometimes letting the
sun set on a reading changes things.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thank you, but I can&rsquo;t. We&rsquo;ll be putting on
our show once it&rsquo;s dark.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah. You&rsquo;re one of that bunch from Main Island,
then?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes. I do the slack wire. I mean, I used to.&rdquo; She
stopped herself just in time from venting all her bitterness on
this sympathetic if hired ear. &ldquo;I juggle now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>As she hurried away, Marka tried to leave the reading behind,
but its bad aura hung round her like a wet cloak. Nothing, it
seemed, was going right these days, not even a simple thing like
getting her fortune told. Although Luvilae was the capital of Zama
Ma&ntilde;ae, the southernmost island in the Orystinnian archipelago, at a
mere twenty thousand inhabitants it was not the sort of place where
a wandering troupe of acrobats could make its fortune. Marka
wondered why her father had brought them there, but then, these
days her father did a lot of things that made no sense. She felt a
constant dread, a line of ice down her back, a knowledge that she
refused to face. He promised, she would think, it couldn&rsquo;t be
that again.</p>

<p>She forced her mind away from old memories with a wrench of
will. She&rsquo;d been sent into town, after all, for more
important reasons than just hearing her fortune. She bought a chunk
of roast pork on a stick and wandered round, nibbling her meal and
looking over the other street performers at the fair. The only
jugglers she saw were clumsy; there were no slackrope walkers at
all. Although she found a band of tumblers, they couldn&rsquo;t
compete with the complex routines that the men in her troupe
performed. Most of the solitaires were musicians. Overall, the best
show she saw in that first look round featured trained monkeys and
apes.</p>

<p>As she was buying herself a piece of sugared cake, she noticed a
small crowd gathering off to one side in the shade of a big plane
tree. The cake seller gestured with snow-white fingers, all sticky
from her wares.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If that&rsquo;s the barbarian, you should take a look at
him. Puts on a good show, though I swear the man&rsquo;s
demented!&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka went over, paying as much attention to the cake as
anything, since it was impossible to eat without getting sugar all
over her chin. She found a spot off to one side, but at first she
could only see scarves flying into the air above the heads of the
crowd and hear the fellow&rsquo;s patter, a running mix of topical
jokes and sheer nonsense, all delivered in a musical voice without
any foreign accent whatsoever. She assumed that his barbarism was
nothing more than a good costume until she wormed her way closer to
the front.</p>

<p>For a moment she could only gawk openmouthed. Never in her life
had she seen anyone so pale, as if he&rsquo;d been bleached like a
strip of linen soaked in lemon juice and left in the summer sun.
His skin was a light pinky-beige, and his hair, as fine and
straight as silk thread, was the silvery color of moonbeams with
just the barest hint of yellow in it by contrast with his
steel-gray eyes. He was wearing a strange sort of tunic, with long,
full sleeves, and gathered into a yoke at the shoulders and belted
over a peculiar garment that encased his legs in baggy tubes of
blue cloth. So he was indeed one of those fabled barbarians from
the savage kingdoms far to the north! It took Marka a few moments
to recover from his appearance before she could appreciate his
skill.</p>

<p>And skill he had. In his long, slender hands the silk scarves
seemed to come alive, whisking through the air, floating up only to
plummet down, circling round and round or weaving in and out while
he kept up his stream of jokes and snatches of song. Watching him,
she was bitterly aware of what a beginner she was at juggling and
how clumsy she was going to look when her turn came to perform.
When he paused, looking significantly at the crowd, a rain of coins
flew his way. Laughing and bowing, he flicked the scarves into his
sleeves, then hunkered down to pick up the coins, making them fly
round his head in a little stream before they all disappeared into
his clothes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Great Krysello is pleased!&rdquo; he announced.
&ldquo;Allow him to delight your noble selves with his humble
tricks for a little while longer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When he bowed again, three eggs seemed to appear out of nowhere
and settle into his hands. Before he began this new routine, he
happened to glance Marka&rsquo;s way. His eyes widened; he broke
into a smile of pure delight; then he wiped the smile away and
turned firm attention to his performance. Marka felt utterly
flabbergasted. Although she knew that she was a pretty girl,
she&rsquo;d never had a man look at her that way before, as if the
very sight of her had made him happy beyond dreaming. Her second
thought was that there was powdered sugar all over her face.
Blushing furiously, she elbowed her way through the crowd and fled
the Great Krysello and his smiles.</p>

<p>She found the public fountain and washed the sugar off, then
headed for the city-owned caravanserai at the edge of town. The
troupe had four tents and two wagons of its own, set up in a circle
under some palm trees at the edge of the campground. It was better
to stay away from other travelers, always quick to accuse wandering
showmen of being thieves. The five acrobats were practicing their
tumbling turns behind the tents, while their leader, Vinto, watched
and commented. Out in the middle of the tent circle a big cooking
fire was burning. Marka&rsquo;s stepmother, Orima, along with the
two other women in the troupe, Delya and Keeta, were stewing spiced
vegetables in a hanging pot and slapping rounds of thin bread onto
an enormous iron griddle. They fell silent when Marka came up.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s wrong, Rimi?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing. What makes you say that?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka hesitated on the edge of forcing a confrontation.
Orima&rsquo;s dark eyes turned narrow. In the silence Marka could
hear the sea booming on the nearby shore and the men chanting out
practice cadences.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Where&rsquo;s Father?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Sleeping.&rdquo; She turned away, frowning into the pot.
&ldquo;He&rsquo;s resting before the show tonight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Before Marka could say anything more, Keeta came up behind her,
grabbed her elbow, and steered her away from the campfire. Arguing
with enormously tall Keeta, who was as strong as two average men,
was a waste of time.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you&rsquo;re going to learn how to catch a flaming
torch,&rdquo; she said, and firmly, &ldquo;you&rsquo;ve got to
start practicing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They walked to the edge of the sea cliff and stood for a while,
looking down at the waves rising higher and higher on the graveled
beach. Far off at the horizon the sea made a line like a stretched
wire, perfectly flat and landless. Sail far enough to the south, or
so Marka had always been told, and you&rsquo;d come to an enormous
waterfall, pouring down into the fiery underworld where the sea
boiled off. The water rose again as clouds of steam to make the
rain and start the cycle all over again.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t really want to give me a lesson now, do
you?&rdquo; Marka said at last.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, yes, actually I do.&rdquo; Keeta grinned, a flash
of white teeth in her dark face. &ldquo;But I also happen to be
sick of hearing you fight with your mother.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That woman is not my mother, thank you very
much.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta sighed sharply.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, how much older than me is she, anyway? Four years,
five? How do you expect me to&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t expect you to do anything.&rdquo; Keeta
held one huge hand up for silence. &ldquo;Except to try not to make
things worse. Listen, I know she lords it over you. She lords it
over everyone, doesn&rsquo;t she? But we&rsquo;re in a very bad
position, stuck here at the edge of nowhere. Your father
won&rsquo;t even talk about money. I&rsquo;m willing to bet that
there&rsquo;s not a lot left to talk about.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All at once Marka felt sick to her stomach. She sat down in the
scruffy grass and stared fixedly out to sea. After a few minutes
Keeta hunkered down next to her with a dramatic sigh.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re old enough to know these things now. If the
audience gives you special tips, keep them hidden, will you? Dont
turn them over to your father. I&rsquo;m doing the same. We might
all need a few extra coins if we&rsquo;re ever going to see Main
Island again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;All right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wonder what&rsquo;s he doing with it?&rdquo; Keeta got
up and stretched. &ldquo;Spending it all on <em>her</em>?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Probably.&rdquo; Marka felt the ice-knowledge again,
slicing down her spine. You should tell her, she thought, you
should tell her the truth right now. Saying the words aloud would
mean admitting the truth to herself, as well.</p>

<p>After a long moment Keeta sighed and shook her head.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, let&rsquo;s practice. Some sticks of driftwood are
what we want, something unbalanced like the torches.&rdquo;</p>

<p>As Marka followed her down to the beach, she was feeling like
the worst coward in the world. But I&rsquo;ve got to be sure. I
can&rsquo;t tell anyone till I&rsquo;m sure. That, at least, was
her excuse.</p>

<p>A good session&rsquo;s practice with a friend turned Marka as
sunny as the day, but when they got back to the campground, she
found her father awake, or just barely awake. He came stumbling out
of the tent, yawning hugely, rubbing his sticky eyes, and glancing
round him with a stupid sort of smile that made him look like a
stunned ox. Hamil was as tall as Keeta, and much stockier, a
handsome man with his wide black eyes and full mouth, his
close-cropped curly hair just touched at the temples with
distinguished gray. But just lately he&rsquo;d been looking old,
his eyes often distant or glazed, his speech slow, and he&rsquo;d
been putting on a flabby kind of fat round the middle.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Marka?&rdquo; Hamil said. &ldquo;Did you work over the
market?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, just about an hour ago. There were only two acts to
worry about. One has apes and monkeys, and there&rsquo;s nothing we
can do about that. And then there&rsquo;s this juggler, but
he&rsquo;s just a single player. I&rsquo;ve never seen anybody
throw scarves the way he does. He&rsquo;s really
fantastic.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, really?&rdquo; Orima said with a simper. &ldquo;Maybe
we should prentice you out to him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka opened her mouth for a smart reply, but she noticed
Keeta, standing behind her father and stepmother and shaking her
head grimly.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He could teach us all something,&rdquo; Marka said
instead. &ldquo;The best thing is, he&rsquo;s a barbarian. A real
northern barbarian.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A draw in itself.&rdquo; With one last yawn Hamil ambled
over to the fire circle and sat down on a low stool near his wife.
&ldquo;Huh. Wonder if he wants to join up with a bigger outfit. We
could use a new draw.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If he&rsquo;s that good, he doesn&rsquo;t need to split
his take with anyone.&rdquo; Keeta came forward and joined the
circle. &ldquo;Maybe we should try monkeys.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Smelly things. And they bite,&rdquo; Orima broke in.
&ldquo;And they leave messes all over. It&rsquo;s all that fruit
they eat. I wouldn&rsquo;t want them in my troupe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you ever get your own troupe,&rdquo; Marka snapped.
&ldquo;You can decide then.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Marka!&rdquo; Hamil and Keeta snapped in unison. Hamil
went on alone. &ldquo;You apologize to your stepmother.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;For what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hamil got up, raising one broad hand.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry, Rimi.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Orima simpered and sneered; everyone else in the circle looked
awkwardly away; Hamil sat down again.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to practice some more.&rdquo;</p>

<p>As Marka turned on her heel and strode off, she was wondering if
she could murder Orima and get away with it. The thought was so
strong that it terrified her.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">&ldquo;It <em>is</em> her, O Puissant Princess of Powers Perilous,&rdquo;
Salamander said. &ldquo;Would the Great Krysello be mistaken over a
matter of such grave import? Of course not. I saw her, I tell you:
my own beloved Alaena, reborn and come back to me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I have my doubts,&rdquo; Jill said. &ldquo;There
hasn&rsquo;t really been enough time, you know, since her last
life.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Salamander turned sulky and devoted himself to pouring more
wine. They were sitting in the best inn chamber that Luvilae had to
offer&mdash;a palace by Jill&rsquo;s standards though close to a
hovel by his&mdash;a small room with a chipped tile door, scattered
with cushions for want of furniture. Jill took one of the flat wine
cups from him and considered the problem.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t mean to stir up painful memories.&rdquo;
She made her voice as gentle as she could. &ldquo;But how long has
Alaena been gone?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thirty years. Well, almost. Well, maybe a score and
eight.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How old is this lass, anyway?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh, well, sixteen or so.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s not much time as the Lords of Wyrd reckon
time. It&rsquo;s possible, of course&mdash;just not
likely.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know, I know, but I keep thinking, ye gods, our
marriage lasted but such a little while! She would have wanted to
come back as soon as she could.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;For your sake I suppose?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He winced.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not for me,&rdquo; he said at last. &ldquo;But because
she loved life so much.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill wondered if she could ever be objective in this situation.
Since she herself seemed to be destined to lose every man that she
allowed herself to love, she refused to let her own bitterness
spoil his chance to be happy. He sat frowning into his goblet until
the, for him, bizarre silence got on her nerves.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Does her family live here in town?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Um?&rdquo; He looked up, startled. &ldquo;My apologies.
What did you say?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your heart is really troubled, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll admit to that. I was just remembering when Alaena
died.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He got up and paced over to the one small window, leaned against
the sill, and stared fixedly out at the courtyard below. Old grief
turned his unnaturally handsome face slack. Jill waited for the
tale and his usual flood of words. It never came.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Does her family live here in town?&rdquo; she
repeated.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t. I did a bit of asking round in the
market before I came back here. She is&mdash;of all things&mdash;an
acrobat. One of a troupe of acrobats just come from Main
Island.&rdquo; As he turned back a glossy smile smoothed and masked
his face. &ldquo;Fancy that! I&rsquo;ve heard of strange and solemn
twists and turns of wild and wandering Wyrd before, but
this&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hold your tongue, will you? I suppose there&rsquo;s no
harm in getting to know her a bit. But for the sake of all the
gods, will you try to remember this? That even if by some bizarre
chance this is the soul you knew as Alaena, she isn&rsquo;t the
same person anymore. You have no idea what this child is like.
None.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True enough, much as it aches my eager heart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>There were times when Salamander could irritate Jill beyond
belief, and this was one of them. For all that his half-elven blood
kept him looking young, he was fifty-some years older than she, but
although he&rsquo;d started studying their mutual craft of the
dweomer long before she&rsquo;d been born, she&rsquo;d so far
overtaken him that she was, in a very real though unspoken way, the
master now to his journeyman. Though he acknowledged her authority,
which came ultimately from Nevyn himself, it didn&rsquo;t take
dweomer to see that he resented it as well.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re truly angry with me, aren&rsquo;t
you?&rdquo; Salamander wiped his smile away.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ye gods! You promised me you were going to devote
yourself to your studies, but you&rsquo;ve kept finding one cursed
distraction after another. Now this! And there&rsquo;s the lass to
consider, too, you know. She&rsquo;s but a chid.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Old enough to have been married for years in
Deverry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t Deverry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was afraid you were going to say that. Jill, is it me
you&rsquo;re angry with, or is it everything? The delay, I mean.
We&rsquo;ve been wandering round Bardek for months and months,
finding but a trace here and there of the things you want to
know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill took a deep breath and considered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s that, indeed. Patience has never been my
right-hand weapon, has it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And now glorious Luvilae has been but another dead trail,
a road with no ending, a house with no doors,
a&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;One wretched image is enough, please. But there&rsquo;s
still that bookseller in Ihderat Noa. I have hopes of
him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I suppose you&rsquo;ll want to head back there
straightaway.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was thinking of it, truly. Why not? Oh, of course. The
lass. I suppose you want to spend a few days sniffing round
her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How crudely you put things!&rdquo; He grinned, tucking,
his thumbs into his belt and leaning back
against the wall. &ldquo;But I did think I might take a stroll in
the marketplace tonight. No doubt her troupe performs in the
evening, when it&rsquo;s cooler.&rdquo;</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">When it came time for the show, it seemed at first that the gods
were going to grant them a decent take. In the cool of the evening
a big crowd gathered in front of their improvised stage, set up
between two trees to support the slack wire. As the men raised the
huge standing torches and Marka ran round lighting them, she
noticed a number of fairly well-dressed people in the crowd, the
kind who looked like they weren&rsquo;t above throwing some small
change to a street performer. Best of all, her father was wide-awake
and alert, laughing and joking with the troupe as they gathered
backstage. The first turns went well, too, her own juggling, the
apprentice tumblers, and Keeta&rsquo;s routine with the flaming
torches. When the troupe broke to sling the slack wire, coins came
in a copper shower, but here and there Marka plucked a silver one.</p>

<p>With great ceremony the flute boy and the drummer sat down
cross-legged at the edge of the stage, paused a moment, then began
the music for the centerpiece of the show, the slack rope routine.
Wiping her face on a scarf, Marka stood off to one side and watched
the crowd more than the show. Until Orima came along, the slack
rope had been her own turn, one she&rsquo;d learned as a small
child from her mother and at which she was particularly skilled. A
cow prancing on a string&mdash;that&rsquo;s our Rimi, she thought
to herself. Then she saw, standing off toward the back, the
barbarian juggler. Her heart thudded, her fingers tightened on the
scarf, and she couldn&rsquo;t understand why in the least, except,
perhaps, that he was so handsome. All at once he noticed her
watching and smiled right at her. Blushing furiously, hating
herself for it, she turned away.</p>

<p>Dressed in a brief but flowing
silk tunic over a loincloth, Orima was just approaching the wire-wound
rope, which hung between the twin wooden towers of the mounting
platforms, a good six feet above the stage itself. With a big smile
for crowd she climbed up and did a back flip on the
platform. She bowed&mdash;several times too many in Marka&rsquo;s
estimation&mdash;then took the balance pole and leapt to the rope for a
graceful half run across, balancing in the middle. When the crowd
cheered and clapped, she executed a good turn, and ran back to the
platform so lightly and easily that the crowd yelled in delight.
Marka could practically taste her own anger, a black bile in her
mouth. As Orima mounted the rope again, she hesitated for the
barest second, just the split of a moment too long. The rope swung,
then snapped back; her lead foot groped and grabbed&mdash;too late.
With a shriek she fell, landing spraddled on all fours, unhurt but
furious as the crowd burst out laughing. Swearing under his breath
Hamil rushed to help her up while the tumblers ran back on stage
and hurled themselves into an improvised routine. It was no good.
Laughing and chuckling, calling out a few insults, the crowd broke
up and drifted away, and they didn&rsquo;t bother to throw a single
coin behind them, not even for good luck.</p>

<p>In a sullen silence, barely able to look at each other, the
troupe doused the torches, stripped the stage, and loaded
everything into the wagons while Orima cowered under a nearby palm.
Marka was frankly terrified, blaming her ill will for the fall even
as she told herself, over and over, that such things were
impossible. Much to her relief, no one mentioned the fall until
they got back to the campground, where Delya and young Rosso were
keeping an eye on the tents. While the men tended the horses and
wagons, Hamil and the women drifted miserably over to the fire.
Delya took one good look at their faces and said nothing. The
silence grew until Orima screwed her face in a pout and pointed one
painted fingernail at Marka.</p>

<p>&ldquo;She hexed me!&rdquo; Orima screeched. &ldquo;Your
precious little daughter hexed me! She&rsquo;s got the evil
eye.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, don&rsquo;t be ridiculous!&rdquo; Hamil snapped.
&ldquo;We all fall now and then.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She&rsquo;s got the evil eye!&rdquo; Orima stamped one
slender foot.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will you shut up? If your head wasn&rsquo;t so empty you
might have better balance on the rope.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You pig! You filthy rooting hog!&rdquo;</p>

<p>Orima and Hamil began sneering and screeching in turns. The rest
of the troupe rolled eyes heavenward and trotted off, bursting into
chatter as soon as they were well away from the slanging match by
the fire. Marka raced off after Keeta. She knew how the fight would
end; they would suddenly be all kisses and hugs and creep into
their tent&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;she didn&rsquo;t want to think
about it. In the moonlight the two women walked along the edge of
the cliff and watched the waves foaming below.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Keeta?&rdquo; Marka said at last. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t
think wishing someone ill can work them ill, do you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta laughed, her dark rumble of a bellow as reassuring as a
motherly hug.</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, I most certainly don&rsquo;t. Why? Feeling a bite of
guilt, hum?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, it sounds silly now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Understandable enough, little one. But don&rsquo;t vex
your soul over it. She fell because she hurried her step,
that&rsquo;s all.&rdquo; Keeta sighed profoundly. &ldquo;At least
we earned enough to eat for a while.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But how are we going to get home? This is the only
stinking town on this rotten little island, and they aren&rsquo;t
going to want to watch the cow capering again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oooh! Nasty little tongue!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But I&rsquo;m right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta made a sort of grunt.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, aren&rsquo;t I right?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;About the audience, yes. I wouldn&rsquo;t call Rimi a
cow. Your father&rsquo;s right. We all fall now and
then.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I never did! And she hates me for it, too. You know what
I&rsquo;m afraid of? That she&rsquo;ll work on Father, and he&rsquo;ll
sell me to a slave trader. That&rsquo;d buy passage for all of you,
wouldn&rsquo;t it? I bet I&rsquo;d fetch a lot.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will you be quiet? That&rsquo;s the most awful thing
I&rsquo;ve ever heard anyone say! Your father would never do such a
thing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe not, but she would.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta&rsquo;s silence spoke a scrollful of answers.</p>

<p>In the morning Marka slept late. She shared a tent with Keeta
and Delya, but woke to find them long gone, their bedrolls neatly
folded and stowed off to one side, the hot sun streaming through
the canvas. From outside she could hear voices, laughter and
amiable squabbling, snatches of singing and pretend-oaths, all the
normal life of the camp. She dressed, found her bone comb, and
wandered outside to stand blinking in the sunlight and work at
smoothing her tangle of curls. Although everyone else was up and
around, there was no sign of her father or Orima. Still in bed,
probably. She made a face at the thought.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There you are!&rdquo; Keeta called out. &ldquo;Fresh
bread in that basket by the fire pit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Together they sat down by a pile of firewood while Marka nibbled
at her breakfast.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was talking to Vinto,&rdquo; Keeta said.
&ldquo;He&rsquo;s worried about money, too. Your father&rsquo;s
been making hints about not having enough to give the acrobats
their full wages.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka felt suddenly sick to her stomach.</p>

<p>&ldquo;But if he shorts them, they&rsquo;ll leave. They&rsquo;re
good enough to travel on their own.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know. I thought maybe you might have a word with your
father. You&rsquo;ve still got a lot of influence with
him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If I say something, the cow will say the opposite, just
to be mooing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Marka!&rdquo; But Keeta hesitated, her mouth twisting in
a bitter recognition of the truth. &ldquo;Maybe I&rsquo;ll talk to
him, then. I was stranded once, with another troupe, years ago now,
but I remember it awfully well. Too well. I
don&rsquo;t&mdash;&rdquo; She hesitated again. &ldquo;Wait a
minute. Isn&rsquo;t that the barbarian?&rdquo;</p>

<p>His face shaded by a floppy leather hat, the juggler was riding
up to the camp on a beautiful&mdash;and
expensive-looking&mdash;gray gelding. He dismounted just outside
the circle of tents, stood looking round for a moment, then led his
horse over to the fire pit while everyone else in camp strolled
over to meet him. Marka felt her heart start pounding when he made
them all a lazy bow, just because he was so lithe and graceful.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good morning, all,&rdquo; he announced with a grin.
&ldquo;My name&rsquo;s Salamander, and I was wondering if I could
have a word with the head of your troupe. I might have a business
proposition to lay before him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Um, well, he&rsquo;s still in his tent,&rdquo; Keeta
said. &ldquo;Should be up anytime now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Salamander glanced at the sky as if to check the position of the
sun. Vinto and Keeta exchanged significant looks and went on
surreptitiously judging the cost of his beautiful clothes and horse
gear.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m his daughter,&rdquo; Marka said.
&ldquo;Maybe you could tell me what you want.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perhaps you can help me, indeed. I was wondering where
you were all heading to next, since it would seem that this town no
longer provides afresh and profitable field for your talents to
cultivate.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Again Keeta and Vinto glanced at each other, this time with a
hint of agony.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Er, we haven&rsquo;t exactly decided. Going back to Main
Island, maybe, but I&rsquo;m not sure.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see. Well, my companion and I are less than sure of our
next destination, too, you see, and I thought
that&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; He let his words trail
away.</p>

<p>Hamil was crawling out of his tent, and when he stood up, he
lurched and swayed so badly that Marka at first thought he was
ill. She bolted and ran to steady him, shocked at the inert force
of his weight upon her shoulder as he leaned sideways. Dimly she
was aware of the camp breaking out into a buzz of talk.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Papa, what&rsquo;s wrong?&rdquo;</p>

<p>For an answer he merely smiled, a slow, secretive smile, and his
eyes turned her way slowly, too, all heavy lids and droop. Around
him hung a smoky scent, like incense. Marka grunted as the
ice-knowledge chilled her to the spine. For a moment she felt the
earth turn beneath her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s the white smoke again. Well, isn&rsquo;t it?
Oh, Papa, you promised!&rdquo; With a howl she thrust him away.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Hey.&rdquo; He staggered and sat down heavily.
&ldquo;Little beast.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not again! Why&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;it was her,
wasn&rsquo;t it? She&rsquo;s been getting it for you! Curse her
guts!&rdquo;</p>

<p>By then the rest of the troupe was hurrying over. Marka dodged
away and ducked into her father&rsquo;s tent. Naked, on her hands
and knees, Rimi was desperately scraping earth over a hole in the
dirt floor. The stem of a pipe stuck up through it. Marka grabbed
her by the hair, pulled her up, and slapped her across the face.
She squealed like a pig and slapped back, all feeble and
limp-wristed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Filth! You piece of gutter filth!&rdquo; Marka hit her
again. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve been giving my father opium. I should
turn you over to the archon. I should kill you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Squealing and swearing, Rimi tried to writhe away. Marka went
for her throat just as Keeta grabbed her from behind. There was no
use struggling in those massive hands.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Delya, get the little whore dressed and out here!&rdquo;
Keeta dragged Marka back. &ldquo;You, young lady, are coming with
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Outside, the acrobats were mobbing round Hamil, clamoring
questions. Keeta marched Marka over to the fire pit, where
Salamander was standing and studying the dead coals as if they
interested him very much indeed. One or two at a time, the acrobats
gave Hamil up as a bad job and drifted over. Marka began to sob
convulsively, whether in rage or grief she didn&rsquo;t quite know.
Keeta&rsquo;s icy voice cut through her hysteria.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s done this before, has he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not for years. He promised. Why do you think my mother
left him?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;She left you with him?&rdquo; Vinto broke in.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He wouldn&rsquo;t let me go. And he promised to stop. He
promised.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She forced back tears and looked up. Keeta had turned away
appalled, shaking her head over and over. Vinto ran both hands
through his hair and stared at the ground for a long moment.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; he said at last. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry,
little Marka, but me and the boys are pulling out. We can earn
enough on our own to get back to Main Island, anyway, and
we&rsquo;ll think of something to do then.&rdquo; He glanced at
Keeta. &ldquo;You and Delya are welcome to come with us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta sighed sharply, hesitated, then looked at Marka.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Only if you come, too, little one. I can&rsquo;t just
leave you here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka felt as if her tongue had swelled to block her throat. She
could only stare numbly at her friend&rsquo;s face.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You little bitch, you viper!&rdquo; Rimi marched over,
dressed now and wrapped in dignity as well. &ldquo;You&rsquo;d
better go with them! Do you think I&rsquo;m going to put up with
you after this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka could find nothing to say to her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shut up,&rdquo; Keeta snapped. &ldquo;Her father&rsquo;s
got something to say about this.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Father will listen to her.&rdquo; Marka heard her own
voice whispering like a stranger&rsquo;s. &ldquo;If they do the
smoke together, he&rsquo;ll listen to her. He lost my mother over
it, didn&rsquo;t he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>She began to cry again, a helpless flutter that she hated for
its weakness. Through her tears she saw Rimi leering and gloating,
her face swimming like some dark moon. Marka raised her hands and
stepped forward; then someone caught her firmly and pulled her
back: the barbarian juggler.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Satisfying though it would be, my turtledove, to rake
your nails down her beauty, it would be both unprofitable and a
waste of time. The opium itself will claw her for you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Rimi swore like a sailor, then turned on her heel and marched
off. Marka wriggled free of his lax grasp and wiped her face on her
sleeve. When she looked round, there was no sign of Hamil, but from
the purposeful way that Rimi was marching toward the palm grove at
the edge of the caravanserai, Marka could assume that he&rsquo;d
taken refuge there. Vinto, his acrobats, Keeta and Delya,
Salamander as well&mdash;Marka was suddenly aware of the way they
all were looking at her, as if she were an invalid who just might
die.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You can&rsquo;t stay with them,&rdquo; Keeta said at
last. &ldquo;You just can&rsquo;t. I don&rsquo;t know what would
happen to you, but&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can guess,&rdquo; Vinto snarled. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s not
a child anymore, Keeta! She can hear the truth. How long will it be
before her pig-dog of a father has her and Rimi selling themselves
to keep him in smoke?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka felt the earth lurch again, but she knew what she had to
do. Salamander laid a gentle hand on her shoulder to steady her.
She shook it off.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;d better pack our stuff up,&rdquo; Marka
snapped. &ldquo;Vinto, at least one horse and wagon should be
yours, anyway, for the wages we owe you.&rdquo; Her voice
threatened to break, but she forced it steady. &ldquo;Maybe if we
all pool our coin, we can get a ship back to Main Island
today.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta let out her breath in an explosive puff and muttered a
thanks to the Star Goddesses.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you wouldn&rsquo;t mind me joining you with my
act,&rdquo; Salamander said. &ldquo;We could all travel together,
indeed. Shall we repair to the inn where I&rsquo;ve been staying
and have some wine? There shall we foment plans.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Glad to,&rdquo; Vinto said. &ldquo;We can discuss shares
later. First let&rsquo;s get out of this stinking camp.&rdquo;</p>

<p>During the slow walk to town, Marka suddenly remembered the
fortune-teller. Good luck mixed with disaster, was it? Well, she
could see the disaster, all right, but where was the good luck?</p>

<p>At Salamander&rsquo;s inn the portly landlord moaned and wrung
his hands over the very thought of having traveling acrobats in his
common room, but the juggler talked him into serving wine and
little cakes, such good wine that Marka was impressed. As they sat
on cushions round a low table and made awkward conversation, she
noticed that Vinto was already beginning to defer to him, only in
little ways, but she had the feeling that sooner or later this
stranger was going to end up managing the entire troupe. Since they
were sitting off to one side, she could whisper to Delya.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you mind everything changing like this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mind? Oh, if Keeta thinks it&rsquo;s a good idea,
I&rsquo;ll go along with it. What do you think of this
juggler?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. He&rsquo;s awfully
good-looking.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I suppose so. He&rsquo;s certainly used to taking charge.
He said he had a companion, didn&rsquo;t he? I wonder what
she&rsquo;s like?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka felt so bitterly disappointed that she nearly wept.
She&rsquo;d forgotten that a man like this would have women
following him round wherever he went, that he would most certainly
never be interested in a gawky girl like her.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">Jill first heard of Salamander&rsquo;s newly acquired troupe of
acrobats from the innkeep, who came rushing upstairs to tell her as
soon as he had the wine served. All quivering jowls and flapping
hands, he bowed repeatedly while he blurted.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There must be ten of them! They&rsquo;re probably all
thieves! I don&rsquo;t have room! I don&rsquo;t know what
your&mdash;uh&mdash;friend was thinking of!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Thinking? He probably wasn&rsquo;t, knowing him. All
right, I&rsquo;ll go down.&rdquo;</p>

<p>By then several pitchers of wine had gone round, and everyone
was giggling and talking a little too loudly as they lounged on
cushions round the low table. Jill stood in the doorway for a
moment and watched Salamander, beaming at his own generosity,
playing host like a Deverry lord. Opposite him sat a pretty young
woman who studied him in such a fervent mix of desire and misery
that she might well have loved him in her last life.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, Jill, there you are!&rdquo; Salamander called out.
&ldquo;Come join us! My friends, this is Gilyan of Brin Toraedic, a
wandering scholar, who has honored my humble self by traveling with
me as she searches out rare manuscripts. She&rsquo;s on a special
commission from the scholar-priests of Wmmglaedd, a mysterious and
magical isle in the far-off kingdom.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The troupe greeted this cascade of blather with honest awe, the
men rising to bow to her, the women bobbing their heads her way,
except for Marka, who merely stared. The gray-haired fellow sitting
next to Salamander started to get up and cede her his seat, but
Jill waved him back.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I just need a word with Salamander,&rdquo; she said.
&ldquo;Not that it&rsquo;s possible to have but a single
word.&rdquo;</p>

<p>At the jab he winced, but he scrambled up and followed her out
to the courtyard where they could talk privately. Jill perched on
the edge of a tiled fountain and glared at him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wanted to travel quietly.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Um, well, yes. I do remember you mentioning something of
the sort. But we&rsquo;ll be safer with a large group.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wasn&rsquo;t aware we were in any danger.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Salamander sighed and sat down next to her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s have the truth.&rdquo; Jill changed into
Deverrian to doubly insure privacy. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re doing this
to have a chance at the lass, aren&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Bit more to it than that!&rdquo;</p>

<p>She raised one eyebrow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill, they needed my aid! The leader of their band had
spent all their coin on the white smoke, and there they were,
stranded far from home in a town where they&rsquo;d never earn
another copper.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your heart&rsquo;s big enough to embrace the world and
your tongue to cover it, too. I still say it&rsquo;s the lass who
inspired this outburst of compassion.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Imph, well.&rdquo; He held up his hand and flicked drops
from his fingertips. &ldquo;Well. Imph.&rdquo; Then he looked up
with one of his sunny grins. &ldquo;But since you want to talk with
that bookseller in Inderat Noa again, we&rsquo;ve got to go back to
Main Island anyway, and travel across its less-than-glorious
reaches, so they might as well travel with us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, I suppose so! And the lass will doubtless be better
off with you to look after her than she would be on her
own.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Salamander grabbed her hand and kissed it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My humble thanks, O Princess of Powers
Perilous!&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill snatched her hand away and stood up, shaking her head more
at herself for indulging him than him for wanting to be indulged.
Later, though, when she heard Marka&rsquo;s story of traveling with
her addicted father and his jealous young wife, she decided that
she&rsquo;d done the right thing. The child was better off with
them. Certainly the members of the troupe agreed. Late that
evening, after the muttering innkeep had found them all rooms and
served a grudged dinner, Jill was walking out in the cooler air of
the courtyard when Keeta joined her, carrying a pierced tin
candle-lantern.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I just wanted to thank you for allowing Salamander to
take us on like this. If he weren&rsquo;t advancing us the passage
home, I don&rsquo;t know what we&rsquo;d do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, it was his decision, but you&rsquo;re all welcome
enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, please!&rdquo; Keeta laughed, a pleasant if rather
deep chuckle. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s obvious that you do the deciding
around here, no matter how much he talks, and by the Star Goddesses
themselves, he does a lot of talking, doesn&rsquo;t he? But
I&rsquo;m glad that we&rsquo;ll be taking Marka away from her
father before she gets cold feet and runs back to him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Kin ties are hard to break, and she&rsquo;s very
young.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Um.&rdquo; Keeta sat down on the edge of the tiled
fountain. Even sitting while Jill stood, she looked Jill straight
in the face. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s a wise child, old beyond her
years&mdash;well, in most things, that is. When it comes
to others&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill waited, not quite sure of her drift. Keeta frowned at the
dappled lantern light on the water.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve  seen it happen
before,&rdquo; Keeta said at last. &ldquo;A young girl same in the same
troupe with some good-looking man. Sometimes there&rsquo;s trouble over
it&mdash;trouble for her, anyway. I intend to talk some sense into
her head. You don&rsquo;t need to worry about her making a
fool of herself over vour man.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; Jill burst out laughing.
&ldquo;Let me assure you that Salamander&rsquo;s nothing of the
sort! He&rsquo;s more like a brother to me than anything.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh! Well, that takes care of half the problem,
then.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And the other half is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;d hate to see little Marka
pregnant and deserted.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;He wouldn&rsquo;t do that. Oddly enough. He
looks like the sort of man who&rsquo;d leave with never a backward
glance, but he&rsquo;s not. I&rsquo;ll give him a fair bit of
credit&mdash;he&rsquo;s got more honor around women than most men
do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wouldn&rsquo;t be hard, huh?&rdquo; Keeta considered
for a long moment before she smiled. &ldquo;Well, that eases my
mind, I must say. I didn&rsquo;t want to see the child get free
of one mess only to land in another.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Although Keeta took the lantern and went back inside, Jill
lingered in the cooler air. By then the moon, just past her full,
had sailed tover her zenith and was beginning to sink off to the
west. The silver light fell dappled through the sparse trees and
danced on the mcoving surface of the fountain. As Jill watched, the
light seemed to thicken and take shape like the drift of smoke
over a dying campfire. At first she assumed that it was merely
some of the Wildfolk in a semimaterialized form, playing in the
water; then she realized that the waft of palpable light was
swirling, growing, stretching upward as it spiraled round to make a
silver pillar some ten feet high and four across. Inside the
pillar, glowing all silver, stood a vaguely elven shape, not as solid as
water, yet more so than a beam of light.</p>

<p>Jill raised
her hands palm-out and chest-high, then spoke in greetings
the magical names of the Lords of Water, for she thought
that this being was one of the elemental kings. Yet as the form
thickened within the pillar of light, she realized that it belonged to
an elven woman, familiar-looking at that, with a long mane of silvery-blond hair and
steel-colored eyes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Dallandra! How did&mdash;&rdquo; Jill was too surprised
to say more</p>

<p>Dressed in an elven tunic and a pair of leather trousers,
Dallandra seemed almost solid as she stood hovering over the water
in the basin. Jill had never seen her so clearly before. She could
pick out the separate curls and masses of her hair, see the folds
of cloth in her tunic, and just make out a pale shard of landscape
behind her, a grassy meadow and a single tree. Round her neck
Dallandra was wearing on a golden chain a single large amethyst
carved into some ornamental shape&mdash;or so Jill thought of it.
Yet when she spoke, Jill heard her voice only as a thought.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill! What are you doing here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Trying to find out the meaning of the word inside the
rose ring. Do you remember it? The one Rhodry Maelwaedd
has.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course I do. That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;ve been looking
for you.&rdquo; She frowned, staring down at something near her
feet that Jill couldn&rsquo;t see. &ldquo;But I meant, why are you
in Bardek?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know where I am? How?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can see your surroundings, and they match what I&rsquo;ve been
told about the islands. But please, I don&rsquo;t have much
time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, it seems that some of the People may have fled
south after the Great Burning, and there might be some still living
far to the south of here. I&rsquo;ve found a map, you see, that
shows islands out beyond Anmurdio, and some histories that indicate
there were once elves in Bardek. I&rsquo;ve come to look for
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dallandra gasped, and the surprise broke her concentration. Her
form began to fade as the pillar of light changed to a thick pillar
of smoke, swirling silver in the moonlight.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Dallandra!&rdquo; Without thinking Jill was on her feet and
shooting. &ldquo;Dalla! Wait! How did you get here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>With one last swirl the pillar seemed to blow away, smoke
on the wind, a thickening of moonlight, then gone.</p>

<p>For a long time Jill sat on the bench, and did some hard
thinking. Dallandra was a dweomermaster of great power who, some
hundreds of years earlier, had linked her Wyrd to that of the
strange race of beings known as the Guardians. Jill had last seen
her back in the Westlands a thousand miles away and, more
significantly, far across the ocean, Working dweomer across any
body of water is impossible, because the exhalations of elemental
and the astral vibrations break up an image as fast as even the best
dweomermaster can build it. Other dweomermasters had told Jill many a
time that Dallandra had long left ordinary physical existence
behind, even though none of them knew exactly in what state she did
exist. At best she was semicorporeal, a thing of etheric substance
only, which would make her even more vulnerable to the water forces
than an ordinary magically produced shape or image. Yet here she
was, or at the least some clear projection of her, coming through
onto the physical plane. It was more of a puzzle than Jill could
solve.</p>

<p>When she went back inside, she paused for a moment at the door
of the common room and watched Salamander lounging at a table with
a half-empty wine cup in his slender hands and smiling as he
listened to the talk and jests flying like juggling clubs among the
troupe of acrobats. He&rsquo;s probably been lonely, Jill thought.
The gods all know that I&rsquo;m poor enough company when I&rsquo;ve got some
working at hand. Yet her annoyance lingered, that he&rsquo;d
distract himself from his studies this way. She had, after all,
promised Nevyn that she would oversee his dweomer training and do
her best to get him to work up to his potential. In her mind, any
promise she&rsquo;d made to Nevyn was a sacred charge.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">Dallandra had come to Bardek searching for Jill, or to be
precise, she&rsquo;d been searching for Jill on the inner planes
and traced her to a place that had turned out to be Bardek. Judging
from the way that Time ran in that world in which she was
experiencing Time, it had only been a few weeks since
she&rsquo;d left her dweomermaster of a husband, Aderyn of the
Silver Wings, back in the Westlands, although she knew, of course,
that it was well over two hundred years as men and elves reckoned
the span. Even though she was aware of the split between
the two time flows, it was hard to keep track of small variations.
It seemed to her that she&rsquo;d last seen Jill the day before, when in
truth it had been nearly three years. During that last meeting, Jill had
asked her about the rose ring&rsquo;s secret and she&rsquo;d tried to find
the answer for the human dweomerwoman.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;d forgotten about the lapse of time,&rdquo; she remarked
to Evandar. &ldquo;She was so surprised that I&rsquo;d
remember.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Eventually you&rsquo;ll grow used to the ebb and flow,
and you&rsquo;ll see why we don&rsquo;t concern ourselves with the
affairs of that world of yours. It all speeds by, like light on a
running stream.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So it must. How many of their years is a day
here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? How would I know?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Haven&rsquo;t you ever thought to work it out?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Whatever for? Besides, it changes, how fast things
flow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It changes? Well, there&rsquo;s a bother, then. On what
principle?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;On what?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I mean, there must be some sort of rule or regular
order to the way the changes come and go.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Evandar merely looked at her, slack-mouthed and wondering.
Dallandra considered and tried again.</p>

<p>&ldquo;What about bard lore? Would there be any old sayings about
Time among your people?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In summer the sun runs fast as a girl through the
sky,&rdquo; he said and promptly. &ldquo;In winter like an old
woman she goes halt and slow.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve never noticed it being winter here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, but it has been. You can tell by the way Time limps.
Now in the heat of the summer she moves like a bird on the
wing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;&rsquo;And what about spring and autumn? Are there any
sayings about them?</p>

<p>&ldquo;About spring, no, but there&rsquo;s one day in the fall
of the year when our time and their time coincides.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And that is?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;In the land of men, it&rsquo;s the day between
years.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A day <em>between</em> years? I&rsquo;ve never heard of such a
thing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He merely shrugged indifferently. They were sitting that
evening&mdash;or seemed to be sitting&mdash;on a grassy hilltop,
looking down into shifting mists that alternately covered, then
revealed a plain crisscrossed by rivers and dotted with thickets.
Far off on the horizon a moon was rising, bloated and
golden.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand why you won&rsquo;t tell me what
that word inside the ring means.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand why myself, but I&rsquo;m still not
going to tell you.&rdquo; He caught her hand and kissed it. &ldquo;Why do you
want to help this human woman, anyway?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Because she&rsquo;s going to help us. She promised me
that she&rsquo;d look after the child when it&rsquo;s born, and in
return, it&rsquo;s only common courtesy to help her find out what she
needs to know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But it&rsquo;s a riddle, and one of my best riddles, and
I&rsquo;ll not tell her the answer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>For a moment she considered him, this strange creature who was
in a stranger way her lover now. Although he looked like an elf
in most ways, his hair was the yellow of daffodils, no natural
blond, his lips were as red as sour cherries, and his eyes were a
startling turquoise-blue, as artificial as one of the colors that
elven craftsmen grind to decorate tents.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This island to the south, now,&rdquo; Evandar said in a
moment. &ldquo;That does interest me. Would you like to help
her find it? That I will do for her, in return for her help when
the child is birthed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Bless you, my love. I would, indeed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Splendid! You go tell her while I look for the
island.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I will, but I think I&rsquo;ll find Elessario first and
take her along. She should be right nearby.&rdquo;</p>

<p>And so, thanks to the vagaries of Time, it was some
weeks in Jill&rsquo;s world before Dallandra appeared to her
again.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">In the meanwhile, the troupe of traveling players, with Jill
and Salamander tagging along, left Zama Ma&ntilde;ae behind. The main
island of the Orystinnian archipelago is shaped rather like an
animal, with the head pointing due north and the long tail
of a peninsula filing some fifty miles off to the south. Once the
troupe reached Arbarat, the city at the tail&rsquo;s tip, they had a long,
slow journey north with their tumble-down wagons and elderly
horses to the next large cjty, Inderat Noa on the western coast
of the animal&rsquo;s body. Marka was delighted when Salamander
insisted that she leave the bumpy wagon and ride on his horse,
which he then led, walking nearby in the sunny road. They stopped
often, of course, to perform in the smaller towns and marketplaces along the
way.
In every marketplace Salamander bought something for the
troupe, a length of silk for a costume here, or a brand-new set of
painted leather clubs for the acrobats there, out of his own always
substantial earnings.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It takes coin to earn coin,&rdquo; he would say.
&ldquo;And between us, Yinto and I are going to make this troupe
the most splendid show in all of Orystinna.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka would merely smile and think that Salamander could no
doubt do anything in the whole world if he set his mind to it.</p>

<p>With Orima left behind and gone, Marka reclaimed the star turn
on the slack rope. It was some compensation, she supposed, for
losing her father, although, as the days went by, she was startled
to find that she missed him very little. While Haniil had never
treated her badly, he&rsquo;d never treated her particularly well,
either. What she did miss was the fact of having a father, a
family, a place or connection in the world, From now on the
troupe&mdash;or some troupe much like it&mdash;would be the only
family she would have, just as their troupes were for so many of
the wandering performers of the Bardekian islands. She comforted
herself by thinking that at least she had Keeta and Delya, whom
she&rsquo;d known for six whole years, practically a lifetime in
the fluid world of traveling shows.</p>

<p>And then, of course, there was Salamander, whom she found more
than compensation enough. She would pick out a place at a safe
distance to sit and watch him for hours on end, whether he was
performing or practicing or merely standing by the campfire and
eating his dinner. Most times she was afraid to approach him. Once
though, when he was working with the silk scarves, he noticed her
watching and called her over.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Want to learn how to throw these?&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, I would.&rdquo; She was surprised at herself for
speaking so easily. &ldquo;If you wouldn&rsquo;t mind taking the
time to show me how.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not in the least, not in the least.&rdquo;</p>

<p>After that, she had a legitimate excuse to spend several hours a
day in his company, though every now and then, she would notice
Keeta or Jill giving them a less-than-approving look.</p>

<p>After one of their practice sessions, he told her that his real
name was Eba&ntilde;y, but he made her promise to keep it a secret from
everyone else&mdash;which gave her a moment of cold doubt Even
though she was thoroughly besotted with him, Marka was shrewd
enough to realize that he was keeping some rather strange truths to
himself. Whenever he spoke of the barbarian kingdom in the north,
his stories grew guarded. He never mentioned his family or a home
city; he never told anyone why or how he&rsquo;d become a street
performer.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you think he&rsquo;s maybe the outcast son of one of
their nobles?&rdquo; Marka remarked to Keeta one night.
&ldquo;Maybe he&rsquo;s even a prince in disgrace.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta snorted.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The disgrace I&rsquo;d believe quick enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, don&rsquo;t be mean! But you know, sometimes I wonder
if he&rsquo;s married.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Marka my dear, you do have a good head on your shoulders,
don&rsquo;t you? But no, I asked Jill, and she said he
wasn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m so glad! We can trust what Jill says, can&rsquo;t
we?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s something about Jill, my dear, that makes
me think we could trust her with our lives.&rdquo; Keeta frowned,
nipping her lower lip in thought. &ldquo;I feel like a fool for
saying it, but there you are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka barely paid attention to this last remark, but she found
the news about Eba&ntilde;y sweeter than the finest wine or purest
honey. For days she savored it, bringing out the thought that no
other woman had a claim on him. Yet, he remained distant, brotherly
at the most, until she reached the bitter conclusion that he merely
felt sorry for her.</p>

<p>The day before they reached Inderat Noa, the troupe came upon a
public caravanserai beside the road. Although they could have made
a few more miles before dark, and the city lay only about five
miles ahead, they decided to camp early rather than risk being shut
out of the gates by arriving late. Once the horses were tended and
the tents raised, Marka went looking for Eba&ntilde;y. Off to one
side of the campground stood some scruffy holm oaks round a spring
and a series of stone fountains, provided for travelers by the
archons of Inderat Noa. As she walked up, Marka saw him sitting
with Jill, and something about the tense set of their shoulders
made her hesitate. When Eba&ntilde;y saw her, he gave such a guilty
start and smiled in such a nervous way that she realized
they&rsquo;d been talking about her. All at once she felt about
eight years old; she was blushing&mdash;she was sure of it.
Without a word she turned and ran for the camp, dodged into her
tent, and threw herself down onto her blankets for a good cry.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">&ldquo;Whatever happened to the girl&rsquo;s mother,
anyway?&rdquo; Jill said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;To tell you the truth, I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo;
Keeta said. &ldquo;She was long gone when I joined Hamil&rsquo;s troupe.
It was quite a large show in those days.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They were sitting on a stone bench under some trees in Inderat
Noa&rsquo;s marketplace, a big and elegant open square with
fountains and little cobbled walkways between the groups of stalls
and booths. Afternoon heat danced and shimmered over the paving
like the water mist over the fountains. Not too far away
Salamander and Vinto were haggling with a pair of archon&rsquo;s
men about a performance permit.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I did hear that Marka&rsquo;s mother went back to
Mangortinna,&rdquo; Keeta went on. &ldquo;I think she was born
there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see. I don&rsquo;t understand why she didn&rsquo;t
take her daughter with her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;How could she? She and Hamil were legally married and
all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, what&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, wait! You speak so well that I keep forgetting
you&rsquo;re a foreigner. Under our laws a child&rsquo;s her
father&rsquo;s property. The mother has no say in anything, really,
unless he gives her one.&rdquo; Keeta frowned briefly. &ldquo;One
reason why I made my mind up never to marry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can understand that. Mangortinna, huh? Well, if she
went back home, we&rsquo;d probably never find her, even if we did
try.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What do you want to find her for?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s probably just sentimentality on my part,
but I feel like I should&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;well, consult
her, I suppose. You see, Salamander wants to marry
Marka.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Marry her? Actually legally marry her?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, just that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s wonderful! He&rsquo;s the kind of man
who could take good care of her, and she certainly wants to marry
him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill laughed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You were just telling me how awful marriage
is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;For me, it would be, but I know that the way I&rsquo;ve
chosen to live my life isn&rsquo;t right for every woman. I was
really afraid that Marka was going to end up unmarried and
pregnant, no matter what you said about his morals.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So far he hasn&rsquo;t laid a hand on her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So far. She&rsquo;s a pretty little thing, after
all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True, and even more to the point with our Salamander, she
worships him.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Imph. What&rsquo;s wrong with them getting
married?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, he&rsquo;s a good bit older than her, more so than
you&rsquo;d ever think to look at him. And then,
well&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo; She hesitated, unsure of how
to explain, of how much she could explain.</p>

<p>Someone called their names. Waving the permit, Salamander came
strolling over to them, and Jill let the subject drop. Vinto looked
extremely pleased about something, himself.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We shall be setting up our fabulous cavalcade of wonders
on the East Square,&rdquo; Salamander said. &ldquo;Not only is said
square paved and thus quite level, but it&rsquo;s in the more
prosperous quarter of town. We had best return to camp and tell the
others of our good fortune. And I want to see how Delya and Marka
are getting on with finishing those new costumes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to stay in town,&rdquo; Jill broke in.
&ldquo;I want to go see the bookseller, and then I&rsquo;m supposed
to consult with the priests of Dalae-oh-contremo again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Although Inderat Noa sported several grand public squares, most
of the streets twisted like tunnels under arcades of houses and
shops, built right out over them for the shade. As Jill made her
way through this dim warren she attracted a crowd of Wildfolk, the
big purple-striped gnomes peculiar to Bardek, scurrying along after
her on their fat little legs. Although her usual gray fellow did
materialize, he took a smaller form than usual, so that he could
ride upon her shoulder and look down upon the purple gnomes with a
lordly disdain. None of the other people in the crowded street
could see her companions, of course, although every now and then
some passerby suddenly looked down and frowned at what seemed empty
air as a gnome bumped into him or brushed rudely past.</p>

<p>The bookseller, however, could see them quite well, because
he&rsquo;d studied the dweomer lore for some thirty years.
Daeno&rsquo;s little shop was wedged in between a fruit
seller&rsquo;s and a basket weaver&rsquo;s down on a dead-end alley
perfumed with lemons and drying grass. When Jill and her crew
crowded through the door into the blessedly cool shop, the old man
came shuffling forward to greet them all, waggling a finger at the
gnomes and warning them to keep their little clawed paws off the
rare scrolls and codices stacked up high all round.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve found the map,&rdquo; he announced. &ldquo;My
boy just got back with it. Its owner let it go cheap, by the way.
It&rsquo;s not much of a collector&rsquo;s item.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The piece of pounded bark paper was about two feet long by a
foot and a half wide, all torn and filthy round the edges, and
flecked with what looked like ancient wine drops overall. At the
very top of the map lay the faded outline of Main Island&rsquo;s
tail and the tiny islands just to the south; off to the left lay
the Anmurdian archipelago in somewhat darker ink.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now, Anmurdio is much farther off than this map makes it
look,&rdquo; Daeno remarked. &ldquo;So who knows how far away these
are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He laid one bony finger on the &ldquo;these&rdquo; in question,
a group of four islands, drawn entirely too circular to be
accurate, floating far to the south of Anmurdio. Out in the middle
of the ocean in between, the scribe had drawn a sea serpent and a
fat monster with big fangs. Daeno picked up the map and flipped it
over to reveal several lines of tiny, spiky writing, faded to a
pale brown, on the back.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Vairo the merchant made this map by the grace of the Star
Goddesses in the reign of Archon Trono. That was in 977 by Deverry
reckoning, Jill, well, give or take a year, anyway.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You have my sincere thanks for going to all this
trouble.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re most welcome. I&rsquo;m afraid it&rsquo;s not much
of a map.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s better than no map at all, and it&rsquo;ll be
something to show round once we get to Anmurdio.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know, there are supposed to be cannibals in the
smaller islands.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just like there&rsquo;s supposed to be sea serpents out
in the southern ocean?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Daeno laughed, nodding his head in agreement while he rolled up
the map.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The thing is,&rdquo; Jill went on. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m never
going to get a merchant here on Main Island to risk his ship and
his fortune on some daft scheme of sailing to the far south. Or
well, there was one, but he has a wife and three children, and I
couldn&rsquo;t let him. I just couldn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course not.&rdquo; Daeno paused to swat at the gnomes,
who were scurrying this way and that on the counter.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m surprised you found anyone at all. Who was it, by
the bye? A local man?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, a merchant up in Orysat, Kladyo by name.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Elaeno&rsquo;s boy?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The very one! Do you know&mdash;oh, of course you&rsquo;d
know Elaeno!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, not intimately or anything, but
we&rsquo;ve met in the flesh and then, of course, out on the
etheric we run into one another from time to time. Hum, am I right
in this? I heard that his master in the dweomer was a Deverry
man.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s true, and it was the same person who taught
me. Nevyn, his name was.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Daeno whistled under his breath. The gnomes all went dead-still
to listen.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not <em>the</em> Nevyn?&rdquo; the old man said. &ldquo;Oh, listen
to me! There could only be one!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve heard of him, then?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; Daeno laughed aloud. &ldquo;Every
dweomerworker in these parts has heard of Nevyn! He spent years and
years in the islands, you know, over the last two hundred years or
so. He&rsquo;d turn up for twenty, thirty years at a time, then
disappear again for even longer. Probably sailed back home to your
kingdom. You must know all about it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In fact, Jill didn&rsquo;t, and she was rather surprised to find
it out now. Daeno went blithely on.</p>

<p>&ldquo;But to get back to the problem in hand, if you want to
sail south, I suppose that Anmurdio&rsquo;s the best place to look
for a ship.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When Jill arrived back at the caravanserai, she found the troupe
hard at work, readying costumes and props for the evening show.
Salamander himself was sitting on the bed of a wagon with his feet
dangling over the edge like a farm boy and whittling like one as
well. On a piece of driftwood shaped much like a bird, he was
carving details.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;ll be a fine thing to juggle with.&rdquo; In
illustration he tossed it spinning and caught it again in the same
hand. &ldquo;And I know what you&rsquo;re thinking, O Mistress of
Magicks Marvelous, that if only I spent this much time and
ingenuity, to say naught of cleverness, craft, wit, and willingness
upon the dweomer, I should soon match you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Surpass me, more like. You&rsquo;ve got the fluid natural
talent that I never had.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, please, tease me not and mock me neither.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Naught of the sort. I&rsquo;ve had to work blasted hard
for everything I&rsquo;ve accomplished, while it comes easy to you.
I suppose&mdash;no, I know&mdash;that&rsquo;s why I get so sour
with you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh.&rdquo; He considered the wooden bird with a frown.
&ldquo;Well, that does put a different complexion on things, truly.
Jill, you have my apologies. I try to control my frivolous nature,
but it&rsquo;s just somewhat I was born with, I fear me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s somewhat that could be overcome.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shrugged and went back to refining a small burl that
resembled a wing.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Eba&ntilde;y, I just don&rsquo;t understand
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand myself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Would you please not put me off?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He looked up,
abruptly solemn, yet she couldn&rsquo;t tell if he were sincere or
merely arranging the expression she wanted to see.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Dweomer
means everything to you, doesn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo; he said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It does. More than meat and drink, more than
life.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;More than love.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Unquestionably, considering.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Alas, my poor brother! I don&rsquo;t suppose he&rsquo;ll
ever understand why you chose the dweomer over him. No more do I
suppose that you particularly care if he does or not.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s not fair.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He winced at the bite in her voice.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Look.&rdquo; Jill tried another tack. &ldquo;I know the
basic exercises and suchlike can be tedious. Why, when I was
learning all the proper calls and salutes for the elemental kings
and lords, I thought I&rsquo;d go out of my mind from sheer
boredom. But it&rsquo;s been more than worth it. Now I can travel
where I will in their worlds and see the marvels there. But you
know about that. You&rsquo;ve had a taste of it yourself. I simply
can&rsquo;t understand how you wouldn&rsquo;t want more.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have your devotion to the art.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, horseshit!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, the silver dagger&rsquo;s daughter still!&rdquo; He
looked up from his work with a grin, then let it fade. &ldquo;But
horseshit it&rsquo;s not, my friend, my dear and treasured
companion. Jill, when you want somewhat, you&rsquo;re so
single-minded that it takes my breath away. The rest of the
world&rsquo;s not like that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not talking about the rest of the
world.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, very well, then. I&rsquo;m not like that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill hesitated, struggling to understand.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; he went on. &ldquo;You had your own doubts
about taking up the art, didn&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True spoken. But that&rsquo;s when I didn&rsquo;t know
what it offered. You do know. I honestly don&rsquo;t see how you
could get so far and then give it up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah. It&rsquo;s because you do the work out of love, while
I have only duty and grim obligation as my whip and
spur.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You honestly and truly don&rsquo;t love the dweomer
work?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I should have thought that such would be obvious after
all these years.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She knew him well enough to know that he was skirting the edge
of a lie.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well here, consider this.&rdquo; Salamander spoke
quickly, before she could pin him down. &ldquo;Wasn&rsquo;t your
father the greatest swordsman in all Deverry? Didn&rsquo;t he gain
great glory for himself wherever he rode&mdash;the silver dagger,
the lowly outcast of a silver dagger, who put the best fighting men
in the kingdom to shame? But did he relish that life? Did he revel
in his glory and his position? Far from it!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, true spoken. What are you driving at?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Only that a man may have great skill and talent and not
give a pig&rsquo;s fart about the life they lead him to.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And do you feel that way about the dweomer?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not exactly, literally, precisely, or even in substance.
A mere example only.&rdquo;</p>

<p>But at that exact moment his thumb slipped on the knife, and he
sliced his hand. With a yelp he tossed both bird and blade onto the
wagon bed and started cursing himself and his clumsiness. Blood
welled and ran.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;d better let me bind that for you,&rdquo; Jill
said. &ldquo;I hope that wretched knife was clean.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Doesn&rsquo;t matter. The cut&rsquo;s deep enough to wash
itself out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was, too, though mercifully not deep enough
to cause permanent harm. Later Jill was to remember that accident
and its unconscious confession only to curse herself for not seeing
the meaning at the time.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">Among the Host, Evandar&rsquo;s people, Dallandra searched on a
sunny day through a meadow, bright with flowers of red and gold. In
their bright clothes and golden jewelry, the Host too bloomed like
flowers amid the tall green grass, and as always, their exact
numbers eluded her. Even in the sunlight of a summer noon, shadow
wrapped them round, blurring the boundaries that define a person
for us in our world. Out of the corner of her eye she would see a
pair of young girls, sitting gossiping on the grass, turn to look
and find a bevy giggling together, then rising to run away like a
flock of birds taking flight. Or it would seem that under the shade
of an enormous tree a band of minstrels played, their conjoint
music so sweet that it pierced her heart, yet she would find but
one man with a single lute. Like flames in a fire or ripples in a
stream, they became distinct and separate only to fall back again
and meld.</p>

<p>Some of the Host, though, remained discrete, with minds and
personalities of their own. Evandar himself, of course, and his
daughter, Elessario, were the two she knew best, but there were
others, men and women both, who wore names and faces like a mark of
honor. In the dancing sunlight they waved in greeting or called out
some pleasant remark as she made her way across.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Have you seen Elessario?&rdquo; she would ask, but always
the answer was no.</p>

<p>By the meadow&rsquo;s edge a river flowed, and at that moment it
flowed broad and smooth. At other times she had seen it narrow and
churning with white water or come upon it to find a swamp and
nothing more, but at the moment the broad water sparkled in the
sun, and green rushes stood at the bank like sword blades stuck
into a treaty ground. Out among them on one leg stood a white
heron.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Elessario!&rdquo;</p>

<p>The heron turned its head to consider her with one yellow eye,
then rippled like the water and became a young woman with
impossibly yellow hair, wading naked to the bank. Dallandra offered
a hand and helped her clamber out. Elessario picked up a tunic from
the grassy bank and pulled it over her head. Although at first
glance she seemed beautiful, with human ears but elven eyes, at
second glance one noticed that the eyes were as yellow as her hair,
cat-slit with emerald-green, and that her smile revealed
sharp-pointed teeth.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Did you need me for something, Dalla?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I did. Come see something with me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Hand in hand like mother and child they wandered downriver,
looking for Bardek. Here in the world of the Guardians, as the
elves named Evandar&rsquo;s people, images could become real rather
easily, that is, for those with minds trained to build them. First
Dallandra created an image of Jill in her mind, as clear and as
detailed as possible; then she moved this image out through her
eyes onto the landscape&mdash;a mental trick, that, and not true
dweomer, strange though it sounds to those who don&rsquo;t know how
to do it. These mental images were lifeless things, even in this
world, and broke up fast like a picture imagined in a cloud or a
fire. Every now and then, though, one image would linger for a
while longer or seem brighter and more solid. With a fascinated
Elessario trailing after, Dallandra would walk to that spot and
cast another round of images. Every time, one of the new crop would
become solid and endure long enough to point out the next step of
their journey.</p>

<p>As they followed these clues, the landscape changed round them.
The river narrowed, ran shallow; the lush grass withered till brown
and dry. They passed big boulders, pushing up through thin earth,
and eventually found a graveled road, leading forward into mist.
All at once, twilight turned the world an opalescent gray, shot
with lavender.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Here we are,&rdquo; Dallandra said. &ldquo;Come look at a
city of men.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In the mist they seemed to float, like birds
hovering on the wind, then spiraled down and down in ever-twisting
arcs till at last the mist vanished in a starry sky. Below lay a
white city, shimmering in the heat of a Bardek evening. Here and
there in the dark streets a gold point of light bobbed along, a
lantern carried in someone&rsquo;s hand. Down in the center of town
a vast sea of lamps flickered among the brightly colored banners
and booths of the public market. Around this small geometry of
streets and light stretched the dark and arid plain out to a
horizon glowing faint green with the last of sunset. With a little
gasp of delight Elessario began gliding down, following the drift
of music that came to them, but Dallandra caught her arm.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not now, I&rsquo;m afraid. It is lovely, isn&rsquo;t
it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shall I see marvels like this once I&rsquo;ve been born,
Dalla?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, yes,&rdquo; Dallandra hesitated, caught between
truth and sadness. &ldquo;But you know, they probably won&rsquo;t
seem so marvelous, You&rsquo;ll take them for granted, then, like
we all do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>One last image of Jill pointed their way to a caravanserai out
on the edge of town. Among a scatter of palm trees horses and mules
drowsed at tether, and human beings wandered back and forth. Fires
bloomed here and there, but far off to one side a silver-blue
pillar of water force, glowing like a beacon to guide them down,
rose from a fountain. Beside it, sitting with her feet tucked under
her on a little beach, was Jill. To Dallandra it seemed that they
walked up to her in the usual manner, but judging from the way Jill
yelped in surprise, she must have seen them appear all at once.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill, I&rsquo;ve brought Elessario. She&rsquo;s the one
who&rsquo;ll lead her people into our world.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re very brave, then, Elessario.&rdquo; Jill got
up to greet them. &ldquo;I salute you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The child stared back, all solemn eyes and sudden shyness.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Does she truly understand what all this means,
Dalla?&rdquo; Jill went on.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I hope so.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;d best make sure of it. To put this burden on
someone without them truly knowing what they&rsquo;re doing
is&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But, Jill, if they don&rsquo;t come through, her people
will die. Fade away. Vanish. And until one makes the journey, none
will.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But still, she needs to know what&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll do my best to tell her. To make her
understand.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good.&rdquo;</p>

<p>For a moment they considered each other. Although Dallandra
could only wonder what she might look like to Jill, to her the
human dweomerwoman seemed made of colored glass, glowing and
shimmering as they peered at each other across a gulf of worlds.
Such niceties as facial expressions and nuances of voice simply
refused to come clear, yet Dallandra could feel Jill&rsquo;s
urgency as a barb in an old wound of guilt. As she turned inward to
her own thoughts, she began to lose the vision entirely:
Jill&rsquo;s image flattened, then dwindled as if it were rapidly
flying away.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill!&rdquo; she called out. &ldquo;The islands! Evandar
will look for them!&rdquo;</p>

<p>She had no way of knowing if Jill had heard her. All round them
in a rushy vortex the worlds spun by, green and gold, white and
red, faces and parts of faces, words and names flung into a purple
wind, strange beings and glimpses of landscapes, round and round,
faster and faster, yet flowing always upward. She clutched
Elessario&rsquo;s hand tight in both of hers and swept her along as
they tumbled, spun, flew higher, ever higher through a rush of
voices and images, until at last, with a crack like the strike of a
sword on a wooden shield, they fell into the grass of the river
meadow, where the Host was dancing in the summer sun. Elessario
rolled over onto her back and began to laugh.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, that was exciting! It was truly a splendid sort of
game! Will being born be like that, Dalla?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, but backward. That is, you&rsquo;ll go down and down
instead of up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And where will I come out, then?&rdquo; Elessario sat up,
wrapping her arms around her knees.</p>

<p>&ldquo;To a place where it&rsquo;s all warm and dark and safe,
where you&rsquo;ll sleep for a long time.&rdquo; Dallandra had told
her this story a hundred times before, but the girl loved hearing
it. &ldquo;Then you&rsquo;ll find yourself in a bright place, and
someone will hold you, and you&rsquo;ll really, really know what
love is. But it won&rsquo;t all be easy, Elli my sweet. It truly
won&rsquo;t.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You told me about the hard bits. Pain and blood and
slime.&rdquo; She frowned, looking across the flowered fields.
&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to hear about them again now,
please.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dalla felt her heart wrench, wondering for the thousandth time
if she were doing the right thing, if indeed she had enough
knowledge to do the right thing for this strange race, trapped in a
backwash, a killing eddy of the river of Time. Unthinkably long
ago, in the morning light of the universe when they were struck,
sparks from immortal fire as all souls are, they&rsquo;d been meant
to take up the burden of incarnation, to ride with all other souls
the turning wheels of Life and Death, but somehow, in some way that
not even they could remember, they had, as they put it,
&ldquo;stayed behind.&rdquo; Without the discipline of the worlds
of form, they were doomed, but after so long in the magical lands
they&rsquo;d found&mdash;or created, she couldn&rsquo;t be sure
which&mdash;the stinking, aching, grieving inertia called life
seemed hateful to them. One by one, they would wink out and die,
sparks flown too far from the fire, unless someone led them down
into the world. I&rsquo;m too ignorant, Dalla thought. I
don&rsquo;t know what I&rsquo;m doing, I don&rsquo;t have enough
power, I&rsquo;m doing this for the wrong reasons, I can&rsquo;t,
I&rsquo;ll fail, I&rsquo;ll never be able to save them.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, there was no one but her to so much as try.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">The vendor had spread his wares out in the shade near a public
fountain. An old man, with pale brown skin and lank white hair, he
sat on his heels behind a small red rug and stared out at the crowd
unblinking, unmoving, as if he cared not at all if anyone bought
his wares. Neatly arrayed in front of him were three different
kinds of fortune-telling sets, ranging from a stack of flimsy
beaten bark packets filled with cheap wooden tiles to a single
beautifully painted bone set in a carved wooden box with bronze
hinges. Marka counted her coins out twice, but still, she
didn&rsquo;t have enough money for even the cheapest version. As
she reluctantly hid her pouch again inside her tunic, the old man
deigned to look her way.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If you&rsquo;re meant to have them, the coin will
come,&rdquo; he remarked. &ldquo;They have the power to pick out
their true owners.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Really, good sir?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Really.&rdquo; He leaned forward and ran a gnarled hand
over the lid of the bronze-fitted box. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve sold these
sets for years, traveling round Orystinna, and I&rsquo;ve come to
know all about them. Now, the cheap things, they have no power
whatsoever. A man I know up in Orysat brings them in from
Bardektinna by the crateful. They&rsquo;re slave-made, I suppose.
And those there in the cloth sacks, well, they&rsquo;re good
enough, especially for a beginner. But every now and then a really
fine set comes my way, like these. You can just feel, somehow, that
they&rsquo;re different.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He picked out a tile and held it faceup in his palm. It was the
prince of birds, exquisitely carved with a flare of wing and a long
beak; into the graved lines the craftsman had rubbed some sort of
blue and green dye, staining the bone beyond the power of fingers
to rub it away. As she looked at it, Marka felt a peculiar
sensation, that somehow she recognized that tile, that in fact she
recognized the whole set and particularly its box.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There&rsquo;s a wine stain on the bottom,&rdquo; she
said, and then was horrified to realize she&rsquo;d spoken
aloud.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, so there is.&rdquo; The vendor made the admission
unwillingly. &ldquo;But it&rsquo;s just a little one, and
it&rsquo;s faded, too. It hasn&rsquo;t hurt the tiles
any.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In the hot summer day Marka turned icy-cold. She managed to
smile, then stood up. All she could think of was running away from
the box of tiles. When someone touched her shoulder from behind,
she screamed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, a thousand apologies!&rdquo; It was Eba&ntilde;y,
half laughing, half concerned. &ldquo;I thought you&rsquo;d seen me
come up. Didn&rsquo;t mean to startle you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, well, I was just, uh, well, talking with this man.
He, uh, has these interesting things for sale.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Eba&ntilde;y glanced down and went as wide-eyed as a child. When
he knelt down for a better look, she wanted to scream at him and
beg him to come away. Yet, when he gestured at her to join him, she
knelt beside him, as close as she dared. He picked the knave of
flowers out of the box and held it up to let the golden blossoms
catch the light. With an eye for Eba&ntilde;y&rsquo;s expensively
embroidered shirt of the finest linen, the vendor leaned forward,
all smiles.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The young lady found those most interesting,
sir.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m sure she did.&rdquo; Eba&ntilde;y was
smiling, but his gray eyes were oddly cold and distant, like a
flash of steel. &ldquo;Tell me, where did you buy these?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;From a merchant up in Delinth, last year it was.
He&rsquo;d won them in a gambling game, he told me, over on
Surtinna. He trades there regularly.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t happen to remember what city he got them
in, do you?&rdquo; Eba&ntilde;y put back the knave and picked up a
careless handful of other tiles. Seeing them lying in his long,
pale fingers made Marka feel like fainting, but why, she
couldn&rsquo;t say.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Um, well.&rdquo; The vendor thought for a moment.
&ldquo;Wylinth, maybe, but I wouldn&rsquo;t swear to that.
I&rsquo;ve talked to a lot of people and heard a lot of tales since
then.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course. How much do you want for them?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ten zotars.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Huh, and the moon would cost me only twelve! Two
zotars.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What! The box alone is worth that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But it&rsquo;s got that wine stain on the bottom. Three
zotars.&rdquo;</p>

<p>As they went on haggling, enjoying themselves thoroughly, Marka
could barely listen. Eba&ntilde;y knew about the stain, too, just
as she somehow knew, when neither of them had picked the box up and
looked at the bottom. She was sorry she&rsquo;d ever stopped to
chat with the vendor, sorry she&rsquo;d wanted the set of tiles,
even sorrier he was buying them&mdash;and then it occurred to her
that he was buying them just for her, just because he knew she
wanted them. When he happened to glance her way and smile, she felt
as if she would die from happiness. At last five zotars changed
hands, and Eba&ntilde;y settled the lid on the box, picked it up,
hefted it briefly, and gave it to her. Clutching it to her chest,
she leaned over and on a sudden impulse kissed him on the
cheek.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, thank you. They&rsquo;re so lovely.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He merely smiled, so warmly, so softly, that her heart started
pounding. He rose, then helped her up, taking the box from her to
carry it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s get back to the camp. Oh, and by the way.
This isn&rsquo;t much of a place to ask, but will you marry me? I
know that under your laws I should be asking your father, but going
back to find that esteemed worthy would be a journey tedious beyond
belief, and a reunion oppressive beyond sufferance.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Marry you? Really actually marry you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When he laughed at her surprise, she realized just how ready
she&rsquo;d been to do anything that he might ask of her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shall I take your silence as a yes or a no?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;A yes, you idiot.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With one convulsive sob, hating herself for doing it, Marka
began to cry, and she sniveled inelegantly all the way back to the
caravanserai.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">&ldquo;You stupid blithering dolt!&rdquo; Jill was yelling, but
she did remember to use Deverrian. &ldquo;I could strangle
you!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do calm down, will you now?&rdquo; Salamander stepped
back, honestly frightened. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand why your
heart is so troubled, I truly don&rsquo;t.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill stopped, the anger ebbing, and considered the question as
seriously as it did indeed deserve. She was worried about the girl,
she supposed, who thought she was marrying a young traveling player
much like herself while the truth was a fair bit stranger.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, my apologies for getting so angry,&rdquo; she said
at last. &ldquo;I suppose it&rsquo;s because she&rsquo;s so young,
and you&rsquo;re not, no matter how handsome your elven blood keeps
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But that&rsquo;s a reason in itself. Here, consider this.
I&rsquo;m well over a century old, my turtledove, old for a human
being, young for a full-blooded man of the People, but I&rsquo;m
neither, am I?&rdquo; His voice cracked with bitterness, quickly
covered. &ldquo;Who knows how long a half-breed lives?
Marka&rsquo;s little more than a child, truly. I keep hoping that
this time, we&rsquo;ll have the chance to grow old together.
Before, even if she hadn&rsquo;t caught that fever, I would have
lived long past her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh.&rdquo; Jill couldn&rsquo;t find it in her heart to
reproach him. &ldquo;Well. I mean, none of my affair, is it now?
Whether the lass marries you or no.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mayhap I was a bit sudden about it. It was seeing her
with those tiles. Ye gods, how many hours have I watched her,
sitting there at that little table, poring over those tiles, and
joking with me about what she was seeing, or&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Even if they should be incarnations of the same soul,
Marka and Alaena are not the same person. No one is, truly, from
life to life.&rdquo;</p>

<p>His eyes filled with tears, and he tossed his head, turning half
away. Jill let out her breath in a long sigh. They were sitting in
their tent, off at the edge of the campground. From outside Jill
could hear Marka, babbling in a frenzy of joy, and Keeta&rsquo;s
low voice, celebrating with her. It was certainly impossible to
make Salamander go back on his offer.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s torn it, then,&rdquo; she said.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll be going on to Anmurdio alone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? I can&rsquo;t let you do that!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And I can&rsquo;t let you drag that child along with us,
either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why not? Is it any more dangerous than the life
she&rsquo;s used to, wandering the roads and never knowing where
her next copper&rsquo;s going to come from? We&rsquo;ll be safe
enough. That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;ve been building up the
troupe.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you trying to tell me, you stupid chattering elf,
that you want to take all these wretched acrobats all the way to
Anmurdio with us?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course I do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill could only stare at him. He smiled, all sunny charm.</p>

<p>&ldquo;List but a moment, O Princess of Powers Perilous, and all
will become as clear as a summer sky. Cast your mind backward to
our youth, and our adventures in Slaith. Ah, glorious Slaith! Alas,
thanks to my brother and his righteous wrath, no more do its beds
of fish entrails scent the warm and tropic air, no more do pirates
swagger down its rich and arrogant streets, no more
do&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you going to hold your tongue or am I going to cut it
out? Get to the point!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well and good, then, but you do take the bloom off a
man&rsquo;s rhetoric, I must say. The point, my turtledove, is
this: Slaith was a foul and evil den of pirates, but even there, in
that den of the accursed, my humble gerthddyn&rsquo;s calling made
us both welcome and immune to infamy. Far more welcome, then, in
isolate, nay, even desolate Anmurdio shall be an entire troupe of
performers.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Imph. I hate to admit this, but you&rsquo;re probably
right.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course I&rsquo;m right. I&rsquo;ve spent many a long and
guileful hour in thought, working this scheme through. We&rsquo;ll
probably even turn a profit.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, very well, then! Since there&rsquo;s naught I can do
about it all, anyway, I might as well go along with your daft
scheme. Poor little Marka&mdash;a fine way to start married
life!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Aha! You&rsquo;re the one who&rsquo;s making the mistake
this time. You&rsquo;re remembering pampered Alaena, the rich widow
who lacked for naught. Marka has lived as hard a life as ever you
did as a child, following your father round the kingdom.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill said something foul beyond repeating, simply because he was
right, but he merely laughed at her.</p>

<p>Later that afternoon Jill went looking for Marka and found her
sitting in front of the tent she shared with Delya and Keeta.
She&rsquo;d spread out a large mat and arranged the tiles, which
might possibly have come back to her from another life, in tidy
lines to study them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Marka?&rdquo; Jill said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve just come to
offer my congratulations.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, thank you!&rdquo; She looked up with a smile of such
sheer, innocent joy that it wrung Jill&rsquo;s heart. &ldquo;You
know, I never ever thought I&rsquo;d be this lucky, not ever.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m glad you&rsquo;re so happy.&rdquo; Jill sat down
on the ground across from her. &ldquo;Keeta tells me that the
troupe&rsquo;s going to join together to buy you a wedding
dress.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, and it&rsquo;s so wonderful of them.&rdquo; She
hesitated briefly. &ldquo;You look sad, too, just like Keeta and Delya
do. Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, there&rsquo;s just something about a wedding that
takes us old crones this way. Don&rsquo;t let it trouble
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But it does trouble me. You&rsquo;re all acting like
I&rsquo;m going to get dragged off to the archon&rsquo;s prison
instead of married.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill hesitated, but the girl deserved an honest answer.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I suppose it&rsquo;s because this kind of happiness
just can&rsquo;t last, just because of the way life runs, I mean.
It&rsquo;s sad, in a way, like seeing a spring flower and knowing
it&rsquo;s going to fade when summer comes. I know that sounds
awfully harsh, but do you think you&rsquo;ll always be this
gloriously happy?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I wish I could be, but of course you&rsquo;re
right. All right, then, if that&rsquo;s all it is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>It was, of course, a great deal more than that, but this was no
moment to turn vulture and dwell upon all those worries that used
to trouble older women at a wedding: the slow death of a
girl&rsquo;s youth, the quick death of the little freedom allowed
her in life between her father&rsquo;s house and her
husband&rsquo;s, to say nothing, in those days&mdash;hundreds of
years before the dweomer taught women to control their
pregnancies&mdash;of her possible literal death in childbirth or
from the simple exhaustion of birthing too many children.</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s a nice set of fortune tiles,&rdquo; Jill
said instead. &ldquo;Did Salamander buy them for you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes. Aren&rsquo;t they lovely?&rdquo; But she frowned,
tilting her head a little to one side. &ldquo;You know, it was the
oddest thing. I saw these in the marketplace, just sitting in their
box, and I didn&rsquo;t pick them up or anything. I didn&rsquo;t
even touch them. But I somehow knew that there was this wine stain
on the bottom. And you know what the oddest thing was? Eba&ntilde;y
knew it, too. And he never looked, either.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill&rsquo;s doubt that the girl might be Alaena reborn
vanished.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, odd things like that do happen.&rdquo; She stood up
quickly, before Marka could ask further and touch the edge of
secrets. &ldquo;I think it means you were meant to have them. And
meant to have Eba&ntilde;y, too, most like.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Marka favored her with a smile as brilliant as the moon at her
full.</p>

<p>Later that evening, after the show, when the troupe was eating
its midnight meal round a leaping fire, there was a celebration.
Vinto was a fine musician, playing the wela-wela, a zitherlike
instrument; another of the acrobats played the drum; the flute boy
outdid himself, especially since there was plenty of background
noise to cover his occasional squeak. Everyone was laughing and
singing, toasting Salamander and Marka with cups of red wine and
taking turns in wishing them happiness, and even some of the
merchants who were sharing the public field drifted over, getting
into the spirit of things by bringing stuffed dates and nut cakes
and the other traditional gifts for this sort of celebration. After
about an hour the noise and the crowd began to get on Jill&rsquo;s
nerves, and when she drifted away for a quiet walk, Keeta and Delya
joined her. They found a bench by the public fountain and sat down
to watch the water splashing in the moonlight. Although Delya was
smiling, a little flushed from the wine and humming a tune under
her breath&mdash;in fact, she never did add a word to that entire
conversation&mdash;Keeta looked downright melancholy.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, well,&rdquo; she said at last. &ldquo;At least
Salamander looks like he&rsquo;ll make her a better husband than
most.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, he certainly will,&rdquo; Jill said.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve known him a long time, and I can honestly say
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good. By the way, has he mentioned anything about going
to Anmurdio to you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, yes. What do you think of the idea?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a good one. The towns over there are so
starved for a good show that we should do really well.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s a relief. I didn&rsquo;t want to drag
the rest of you along only to have it turn out to be a
disaster.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What I don&rsquo;t understand, frankly, is how there
could be any rare books and things over there for you to
find.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill fell back onto a version of the truth.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There may not be any, indeed. But a long time ago there
was a horrible war in the country adjoining our kingdom, and a
large band of refugees fled south. Now, they didn&rsquo;t settle in
Bardek proper nor here in Orystinna. What I&rsquo;d like to know is
where they did end up, and what books they brought with them when
they fled.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I must say that you people seem to have a ghastly lot of
wars.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, yes, I&rsquo;m afraid so.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta glanced at her companion and suddenly smiled.
&ldquo;Delly, you&rsquo;re just about asleep. Want to go
back?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mph?&rdquo; Delya woke with a start and yawned.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m fine.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I think we&rsquo;d best get back.&rdquo; Keeta got up and
held out a hand. &ldquo;Come along.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With a nod and apologetic smile in Jill&rsquo;s direction, Delya
rose and allowed herself to be led off to camp. Jill considered
going, too, then decided to sit in the cool and moon-shot dark for
a while. Not only did all the noise and rire&rsquo;s heat seem a
burden, but she was hoping that Dallandra would come through into
the physical plane again. Ever since Dalla had appeared to her with
Elessario along, Jill had been trying to puzzle out her cryptic
last words, which she&rsquo;d heard only as &ldquo;islands
Evandar.&rdquo; Whether &ldquo;Evandar&rdquo; was the name of the
islands where the refugees had settled or of some person, she
simply didn&rsquo;t know. Yet, though she waited there for hours,
the elven dweomerwoman never returned.</p>

<p>When Jill got back to the camp, she found it silent, with no one
up but Keeta, sitting yawning by a dying fire.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I moved your gear and blankets and things over to our
tent. Better let Salamander and Marka have one to themselves.
Thought I&rsquo;d better wait up and tell you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, I see,&rdquo; Jill said. &ldquo;Thank you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>On the morrow, when the troupe marched off into town to register
the wedding officially at the archon&rsquo;s palace, Jill stayed in
camp, but she came to greet them when they paraded back again. At
the head of the line, sitting sidesaddle on Salamander&rsquo;s
dapple-gray horse, rode Marka, flushed and smiling, with her new
husband walking beside her. In full costume the acrobats followed,
singing, laughing, doing a bit of juggling or a dance here and
there. A crowd of children and citizens brought up the rear,
treating the acrobats&rsquo; wedding as just another show,
although, in all fairness, Salamander and Marka seemed delighted to
provide them with it. When they reached camp, he swept her out of
the saddle and kissed her soundly. To the cheering of the crowd
they held hands and bowed, while the rest of the troupe scurried
round collecting the small coins that rained down upon the pair.
Jill could only think that indeed, Salamander had found himself a
perfect wife.</p>

<p>Toward evening, however, Jill dragged him away from the dancing
and music. In the lengthening shadows they walked together among
the palms at the edge of the campground. A sunset wind was
springing up, sending drifts of dusts across the dead-flat
plains.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Somewhat I wanted to ask you,&rdquo; Jill said in
Deverrian. &ldquo;When you agreed to come to Bardek with me, was it
mostly on the hope of finding Alaena again?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I cannot tell a lie. Indeed it was.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill snorted profoundly, realizing even as she did it that she
sounded just like Nevyn.</p>

<p>&ldquo;But, Jill, it all worked out for the best, didn&rsquo;t
it now? Have I not been your guide, your escort, your loyal
companion and faithful dog, even, while at the same time rescuing
my beloved from a life of virtual slavery to her bestial
father?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It was Keeta who did the rescuing. You were just the
bait.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Imph, well, I suppose so, but how crudely you put things
sometimes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My heart bleeds. On the morrow we&rsquo;re going to find
a ship for Anmurdio and get on with our search and that&rsquo;s
that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve already found the ship.&rdquo; He favored her
with a brilliant grin. &ldquo;We had to wait a fair bit down at the
archon&rsquo;s palace, and there was a ship&rsquo;s captain waiting
there as well to register his last cargo, and so lo and behold! A
deal was struck.&rdquo;</p>

<p>And that was the worst of Salamander, Jill reflected. Just when
you were about to allow yourself the pleasure of berating him, he
went and did something right.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">Evandar lounged upon a hilltop that overlooked the remains of a
formal garden, roses gone wild and tangled, hedges sending long
green fingers into the air, muddy walks cracking. The plan of
squares and half circles stretched out skewed, as well, as if the
right half had shrunk and the left grown along the diagonal.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It looks squashed,&rdquo; he remarked to Dallandra.
&ldquo;As if a giant had fallen against it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see what you mean. Is this the garden you showed me
when first I came here?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It is, yes, but now it&rsquo;s spoilt. And the house, the
splendid rooms I made for you&mdash;they&rsquo;ve all gone away,
too, turned into air and blown far, far away. It always happens. I
try to build as once your people built, but never does a stone or
stick last me out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;This world was meant for flux, not forms. If only
you&rsquo;d come be born into my
world&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Shan&rsquo;t!&rdquo; He tossed his head in irritation.
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t speak of it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She knew his moods and let the subject drop.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I found a marvel, Dalla. The islands of which your friend
spoke? They&rsquo;ve rebuilt Rinbaladelan there, but it&rsquo;s a
poor thing, all small and flimsy, wood where once stood
stone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You found them? You didn&rsquo;t tell me that!&rdquo;</p>

<p>He shrugged, then rose, standing for a moment to frown at the
ruined garden. Twilight gathered purple in the sky and dropped
shadows round him like rain. Wind ruffled his yellow hair with a
flash of palpable light. At moments like these Dalla found herself
wondering who or what he might be, and where they might be, as
well, if perhaps even she&rsquo;d died and all this bright country
was only an illusion of life built of memory and longing. It seemed
that her very wondering threatened to destroy the world round her.
The hill upon which they stood dissolved and began to float away in
tendrils of mist, while the garden below became only a pile of
weeds and sticks. Evandar grew as thin as a shadow himself, a
colored shadow cast upon empty air. Her heart thudded in her
throat.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t go!&rdquo; The words seemed torn out of her.
&ldquo;I love you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All at once he stood solidly in front of her, and the hands that
caught her shoulders, the mouth that caught her own, were warm and
substantial. He kissed her again, his mouth all hunger, his hands
pulling her tight against him. Together they sank to their knees,
then lay down, clasped in each other&rsquo;s arms. She lost all
awareness of her body, if indeed it were anything more than a mere
image or form of a body, yet she could feel him, twined round, feel
the energy pulsing from him as tangible as flesh, feel the power
flowing from her own essence as well to mingle with his, while they
shared an ecstasy more intense than any sexual pleasure she&rsquo;d
ever known. On waves of sensation that made them both cry aloud
they seemed to soar, a twined, twinned consciousness.</p>

<p>And yet, afterward, as always, she couldn&rsquo;t quite remember
what had happened to make her feel that way. They lay on the
hillside, clasped in each other&rsquo;s arms like an ordinary pair
of lovers, and yet, without her conscious thought, whatever
illusions of clothing that they wore had returned. She felt cool,
alert, almost preternaturally calm, and he merely smiled at her as
if he were surprised at what they&rsquo;d shared. Yet when he
released her, she saw the garden blooming down below, renewed and
glorious.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I love you as well,&rdquo; he said, as if nothing had
interrupted their earlier talk. &ldquo;Dalla, Dalla, I thought I
was so clever when I lured you here, but you&rsquo;re the hunter
and the snare both. And in the end you&rsquo;ll abandon me, no
doubt, like some animal left dead so long in a trap that its
fur&rsquo;s all rotted and spoilt.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She pulled away from him and sat up, running her hands through
her long tangle of hair. Already her hands and the hair itself felt
perfectly normal to her, no different from the flesh she
remembered. He lay back on one elbow and watched, his face as
stricken as a man who&rsquo;s been told he&rsquo;ll hang on the
morrow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;In the end you&rsquo;ll force me to go,&rdquo; she said
at last. &ldquo;I love you too much to stay and watch you die into
nothingness.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s a cruel speaking,&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Is it? What would you have me do instead?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo; He paused, then shook his
head. &ldquo;By those gods you speak of, I&rsquo;m weary tonight. I
went a long way, seeking out those islands. You should see them for
yourself.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I want to, yes. I wish I could talk with Jill about
them.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why can&rsquo;t you? Go with my blessing, my
love.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not that. I just never have enough time
to say much once I find her, before the vision breaks, I
mean.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, if you insist on going only in visions.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And how else am I supposed to go?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you not here in the world between all worlds? Wait!
Forgive me. I forget you don&rsquo;t know. Come with me, my love,
and you shall learn to walk the roads.&rdquo; He hesitated, cocking
his head to one side like a dog. &ldquo;Where&rsquo;s
Elessario?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s just go take a look at her. I have the
strangest feeling round my heart.&rdquo;</p>

<p>A feeling that, it turned out, was well justified. Hand in hand
they drifted down from the hilltop to find the Host feasting in the
meadowlands. It seemed a huge pavilion of cloth-of-gold, hung with
blue banners, sheltered rows of long tablets, set with candles in
silver candelabra, but once inside Dallandra realized that she
could look through the roof and see stars, spread in the long drift
of the Snowy Road. Music floated over the talk and laughter as they
made their way through the tables and asked for his child. None had
seen her. All at once the pavilion changed, grew stone inside the
cloth, the meadow crisping into straw, the banners transmuting to
faded tapestries. Out of the comer of her eye Dallandra thought
she saw fire leaping in a huge stone hearth, yet when she looked
straight at it, she saw only the moon, rising through a mullioned
window.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come with me.&rdquo; Evandar tugged her hand so hard that
he nearly dragged her away. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t like
this.&rdquo;</p>

<p>At the back door they found Elessario, dres sed in a long tunic
of blue, kirtled at the waist with a silver, white, and green
plaid. In her hands she carried a loaf of bread, which she offered
to an old beggar woman, all gnarled hands and brown rags, leaning
on a bit of stick.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mother, Mother,&rdquo; the child was saying. &ldquo;Why
won&rsquo;t you come in and feast?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No more am I welcome in your father&rsquo;s hall. Child,
can&rsquo;t you see that they plot your death? Come away, come with
me to safety. Better the life of a beggar on the roads than this murderous
luxury.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Miother, no, they mean to give us life, true life, the
like of which we&rsquo;ve never had before.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The old woman
spat onto the ground.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Touching, Alshandra, very
touching,&rdquo; Evandar said suddenly. &ldquo;Truly, you should go
be born into Deverry and grow into a bard.&rsquo;</p>

<p>With a howl of rage the beggar woman rose up, shedding
her rags like water dripping, dressed now in a deerskin tunic and
boots; her stick became a hunting bow, and her hair flowed gold
over her shoulders. Dimly, at the margins of her sight, Dallandra
realized that the stone broch behind them had disappeared, and that
the cloth-of-gold pavilion glimmered in the moonlight in its
stead.</p>

<p>&ldquo;My curse upon you, Evandar!&rdquo; Alshandra snarled.
&ldquo;A mother&rsquo;s curse upon you and your elven whore
both!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;With a gust of wind and a swirl of dry leaves from some
distant forest&rsquo;s floor, she disappeared. Evandar rubbed his
chin and sighed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;She always could be a bit tiresome,&rdquo; he remarked.
&ldquo;Elli, come with us. I&rsquo;ve a lesson to give Dallandra,
and I&rsquo;m not leaving you here alone.&rdquo;</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">As Bardekian merchantmen go, the ship was a good one, soundly
built and deep, with room enough in the hold for the troupe&rsquo;s
gear and room enough on deck twixt single mast and stern for them
to camp under improvised tents. The troupe&rsquo;s horses had a
comfortable place up on the deck tethered by the bow rather than in
the stinking hold. During the crossing Jill spent most of her time
in their equine company. Even in normal circumstances the troupe
lived in a welter of spats and jests, gossip and sentiment,
outright nghts and professions of undying loyalty, and now that
they were sailing off to unknown country, they were as tightly
strung as the wela-wela. Tucked in between the horses and the bow
rail, Jill could have privacy for her meditations. Every now and
then Keeta joined her, for a bit of a rest as the juggler
put it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know how you stand this lot
sometimes,&rdquo; Jill remarked to her one morning.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Neither do I.&rdquo; Keeta flashed a grin. &ldquo;Oh,
they&rsquo;re all good people, really, and the only family
I&rsquo;ve ever had or am likely to have. But they do carry on so.
It&rsquo;s Marka&rsquo;s marriage, you see. She started out as
nothing, the apprentice, the waif we all pitied, and now here she
is, the leader&rsquo;s wife. Everyone&rsquo;s all stirred up and
jockeying for position.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And Salamander&rsquo;s really become the leader,
hasn&rsquo;t he?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, yes. No doubt about that, my dear, none at
all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>At that moment Jill realized why she&rsquo;d objected to
Salamander&rsquo;s marriage. He&rsquo;d so loaded himself up with
responsibility for other people&rsquo;s lives that she
couldn&rsquo;t possibly reproach him for letting his dweomer
studies lapse. She said nothing, merely watched him over the next
few days as he busied himself with the troupe or sat grinning
beside his new wife. Perhaps he knows best, she would think.
Perhaps he simply doesn&rsquo;t have the strength of will, perhaps
he&rsquo;s too weak, somewhere deep in his heart, to take up his
destiny. Yet, despite this sensible reasoning, she felt that she
was mourning a death. For Nevyn&rsquo;s sake, she would do her best
to keep him from squandering his talent, but a crowded ship was no
place to confront him.</p>

<p>From the moment the troupe landed, Jill hated Anmurdio. While
Orystinna was every bit as hot, it was a dry heat there, thanks to
the way the mountains channeled and deflected the prevailing winds.
Anmurdio, the collective name for a group of volcanic islands,
caught the tropic-wet winds full in the face. It seemed that if it
wasn&rsquo;t actually raining, then the wind was howling round, or
if the air was still for a brief while, then it became so humid
that everyone wished it would rain. The towns&mdash;random clusters
of wooden houses&mdash;sagged in the ever-present mud between
stretches of primal jungle. The water wasn&rsquo;t safe to drink
without a good dollop of wine in it; beef was unknown, and bread
rare. Yet all of these aggravations might have been bearable if it
weren&rsquo;t for the mosquitoes, drifting in twilight clouds as
thick as smoke.</p>

<p>Traveling in heavy wagons would be impossible, but fortunately
all the hamlets in the archipelago lay right on the ocean.
Swearing and sweating over the expense, Salamander made a
bargain with the owner of a little coaster that would just barely
hold the troupe. The wagon horses, which Marka loved like pets, had
to be stabled at a further cost in the main town&mdash;city being
far too dignified a word for Myleton Noa&mdash;rather than merely
sold and abandoned.</p>

<p>Just when all these expensive arrangements were concluded, it
began to rain, a dark sodden pour that went on and on and on for
three days and washed away the troupe&rsquo;s remaining coin along
with their tempers. In a flood of jokes and compliments Salamander
moved from person to person, keeping up morale and stopping fights.
As she told him late one night, when they got a moment alone
together, Jill had to admire him for it.</p>

<p>&ldquo;But still,&rdquo; she remarked. &ldquo;If you&rsquo;d
only put this much hard work into your studies&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>He busied himself with slapping mosquitoes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been meaning to have a talk with you,&rdquo; she went
on, relentless. &ldquo;No doubt you&rsquo;ve lost some ground
lately, but now that you&rsquo;re married and settled,
there&rsquo;s no reason that you couldn&rsquo;t gain it
back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No doubt you&rsquo;re correct, O Princess of Powers
Perilous, as well as accurate, precise, and just plain right, but
the times are a bit troubled, not to say noisy, with all of us
packed into this stinking inn together, for concentration. At the
moment, the only dweomer I feel like working would be a bit of
weather magic, to drive away this wretched storm, but I know that
such would offend your fine-tuned sense of ethics.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Things aren&rsquo;t quite desperate enough for that,
yet.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True. It doubtless will clear soon enough on its own. The
innkeep assures me that this much rain is most
unseasonable.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Apparently the innkeep knew his weather, because they woke on
the morrow to clearing skies. In a much improved mood the troupe
set about cleaning and readying their equipment for the coming
show.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I hope to every god that I was right about the profit to
be made here,&rdquo; Salamander remarked to Jill. &ldquo;If
I&rsquo;m not, we are well and truly in the thick of battle without
a sword, as the old saying would have it.&rdquo; </p>

<p>She said nothing, by a great effort of will.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I know what you&rsquo;re thinking,&rdquo; he went on with
theatrical gloom. &ldquo;You might as well berate me and be done
with it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was merely wondering why anyone bothered to settle here
in the first place, and then, in the second, why they bother to
stay.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Pearls.&rdquo; All at once he grinned. &ldquo;Pearls both
black and white, mother of pearl and fine shells of all sorts, the
best and the rarest for the jewelers of Bardek. And they quarry the
black obsidian, too, to send home, and catch the parrots and other
rare birds to delight the fine ladies of Surtinna. Merchant ships
sail back and forth all the time, trading for their
wares.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Nothing but a lot of trinkets, if you ask me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Trinkets have made men rich before. Of course, a lot of
men have died out here, too. The sea&rsquo;s bounty demands its
price.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If it&rsquo;s that dangerous, maybe you should just take
the troupe home now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not until I&rsquo;ve put my scheme to the test, O Monarch
of Might Mysterious. And tonight, here in the very market square of
Myleton Noa, will the test come!&rdquo;</p>

<p>The market square in question was a big sprawl of mud in the
center of town. All round the edge stood such civic buildings as
the town could muster: a customs house, an archon&rsquo;s
residence, a barracks for the town guard, and a money changer, who
supported a small guard of his own, according to the wine
seller.</p>

<p>&ldquo;He&rsquo;s a shrewd one, old Din-var-tano,&rdquo; he
remarked to Jill. &ldquo;And as honest as the sea is deep, too. But
a miser? Ye gods! He lives like a slave, and he won&rsquo;t have a
wife because of the expense of keeping one, you see. I&rsquo;ll
wager we won&rsquo;t see him tonight at this here show. He&rsquo;d
feel obliged to part with one of his precious coppers! But it looks
like everyone else in town is here, that&rsquo;s for
certain.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill and the wine seller were standing on the wooden steps of
the archon&rsquo;s palace, a little above the crowd swarming round
the muddy square. The old man had set up his little booth on the
top step, and as they talked, he was busily chaining wine cups to
the rail. In the velvet twilight, the troupe was raising crossed
pairs of standing torches round the stage while Salamander himself
stood underneath the slack rope and pulled on it to make sure it
was secure.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve never had a show through here before,&rdquo;
the wine seller went on. &ldquo;I wager I&rsquo;ll do good business
after it&rsquo;s over.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No doubt. I take it things are lonely in
Anmurdio.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;As lonely as the sea is deep, that&rsquo;s for certain.
Sometimes I&rsquo;m sorry I came, I tell you, but then, a man can
live his life as he likes out here without a lot of city clerks
laying down the law and grabbing his coin for taxes.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah. I see. Tell me something. Do you ever hear of ships
sailing south?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;South? What for? Nothing out there but sea and
wind.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re sure?&rdquo; She paused to kill
a particularly big mosquito that had landed on her wrist.
&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve never heard of any islands lying far to the
south?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He sucked his stumps of teeth while he considered.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Never,&rdquo; he said at last. &ldquo;But I can tell you
who you want to ask about that. See over there, that great big
fellow standing in the torchlight? The one with the red
tunic&mdash;that&rsquo;s right, him. Dekki&rsquo;s his name, and
he&rsquo;s quite a sailing man, goes to all sorts of places, and
not all of them are on maps, if you take my meaning.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill sighed, because she did see. A pirate, most likely, and not
her favorite sort of person in the world. Before she could ask the
wine seller more, on the stage drums boomed out and flutes sang. In
a pleasurable shudder of applause, the crowd surged closer. The
show had begun.</p>

<p>From the very first moment, when the youngest and clumsiest
acrobat cartwheeled across the stage, Jill could see that
Salamander&rsquo;s commercial instincts had delivered triumph. No
matter whether a performer pulled off a difficult trick or fell in
the middle of an easy one, the crowd clapped and cheered. At the
end of each turn coins clinked and slithered on the stage. After
all, these colonists were rich by the standards of the cities
they&rsquo;d left behind, but lacked luxuries to spend their wealth
upon. When the heart of the show appeared, Keeta and her flaming
torches, Marka dancing upon the slack rope, the crowd screamed and
stamped their feet. Silver flashed like rain in the torchlight. When
Jill turned to speak to the wine seller, she found him utterly
entranced, smiling as he stared. Salamander himself performed the
greatest trick of all, making the crowd fall silent again to catch
his every word. It seemed to Jill that he luxuriated in their
attention like a man drowsing in a hot and perfumed bath. She felt
as if she should slap him awake before he drowned.</p>

<p>Finally, when the performers were exhausted beyond the power of
cheers and coins to revive them, the show wound down. By then the
moon was low on the horizon, and the wheel of stars turning toward
dawn. In a cooler wind from the sea the crowd lingered, watching
the troupe strike its stage or drifting over the various booths and
peddlers selling food and drink. When Dekki came strolling up, the
crowd round the wine booth parted like the sea beneath a prow to
let him through, and the wine seller handed him a cup without
waiting to be asked. The pirate paid twice its worth for it,
though; Jill supposed that his high standing in the town depended
on his generosity just as a Deverry lord&rsquo;s respect among his
folk depended on his. The wine seller made him a bob of a bow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;This lady here would like to speak with you,
Dekki.&rdquo; He jerked a thumb in Jill&rsquo;s direction.
&ldquo;She&rsquo;s a scholar and a map-maker.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Indeed?&rdquo; His voice was a rumble like distant
thunder. &ldquo;My honor, then. What do you want to
know?&rdquo;</p>

<p>They moved away from the press of thirsty customers and stood by
a pair of torches. Jill pulled her map out of her shirt and held it
unrolled in the flaring light.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I got this over in Inderat Noa,&rdquo; she said.
&ldquo;Do you see those islands far to the south? You
wouldn&rsquo;t happen to know if they really exist, would
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I wouldn&rsquo;t be surprised if you told me they
did. Let&rsquo;s put it this way. There&rsquo;s something out
there.&rdquo; He took the map and frowned at the dim markings.
&ldquo;Once me and my men, we were blown off course by a storm, and
a bad one it was, too. We rode south before it for many a day, and
we just barely pulled through, and we found wrack from a ship that
wasn&rsquo;t so lucky. We spotted what looked like a figurehead and
hauled it on board.
We were thinking, see, that it was an Anmurdio ship, and so
we&rsquo;d take it home for the owners&rsquo; reward. Huh. Never
seen anything like it in my life.&rdquo; He handed back the map.
&ldquo;It was a woman, and she was smiling and had all this long
hair, a nice job of carving it was, you would have sworn you could
have run your fingers through it. But she had wings, or, I should
say, what we found had stumps of wings. They must have folded back
along the bow, like. But anyway, there were these letters carved
round the belt she was wearing. Never seen anything like them. I
call them letters, but they were magic marks for all I
know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And what happened to this thing?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, we tossed it back. Wasn&rsquo;t one of our
ships.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see. So, then, it must have come from somewhere to the
south?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Most likely. And then there&rsquo;s the bubbles, too.
Down on the southern beaches, sometimes you find these glass
bubbles after a storm.&rdquo; He cupped his massive hands.
&ldquo;About so big. Bad luck to break one. The priests say there
must be evil spirits trapped inside. But someone must have blown
the glass and trapped the spirits.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t suppose you&rsquo;d be interested in
sailing south someday, just to find out what lies that
way.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not on your life!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not even if someone paid you well?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not even then. You can&rsquo;t spend coin down Hades way,
can you? That storm took us about as far as a man can sail and
still get himself home again, and we all came cursed near to
starving to death before we made port.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The way he shook his head, and the edge of fear wedging into his
voice, made it plain that not all the persuasion in the world was
going to change his mind. Jill stood him to another cup of wine in
thanks for the information, then bid him farewell and strolled over
to join the troupe. They were laughing, tossing jests back and
forth and all round the circle, dancing through their work, so
happy&mdash;so relieved, really&mdash;that she couldn&rsquo;t bear
to spoil their celebration. She would wait to talk with Salamander
on the morrow, she decided</p>

<p>&ldquo;Eba&ntilde;y?&rdquo; she called out. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going
back to the inn. This trip&rsquo;s wrung me out.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He tossed a length of rope into a wagon and hurried over,
peering at her in the flickering torchlight. He himself looked
exhausted, streaming with sweat, his eyes pools of dark shadow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Jill, are you well? Lately you&rsquo;ve looked so
pale.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s the heat.&rdquo; As she spoke, she realized
the grim truth of it. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not used to it, and
I&rsquo;m not as young as I used to be, you know. And it seems to
be taking its toll on you, as well.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded his agreement and ran both hands through his sweaty
hair to slick it back from his face.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t stay up too late yourself, my friend,&rdquo;
Jill said. &ldquo;As for me, I think I&rsquo;ll go have some of
that watered wine or winy water or whatever it is, and then just go
to bed.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She was so exhausted that once she lay down in her inn chamber,
she fell straight asleep and never even heard the entire troupe
clattering in, an hour or so later.</p>

<p>In the middle of the night, though, Jill woke in a puddle of
sweat. Since the window was a patch of black only slightly grayer
than the room itself, she could assume that the moon had already
set but the dawn was still hours away. Swearing under her breath
she got up, rubbed herself dry with her dirty shirt, and put on her
cleaner one to go outside for a breath of air. The compound was
utterly silent, utterly dark except for the faint murmur of water
in the fountain and a glimmer of stars far above. She made her
careful way across the cracked tiles to the fountain, groped
around, and found a safe seat on its edge. Here outside, with a
trace of breeze brushing her face and the sound of water splashing
nearby, she felt cool enough to think.</p>

<p>Getting an Anmurdio ship for the trip south was out of the
question. She decided that straightaway. Even if the crew proved
trustworthy, they and their passengers both would still likely die
from the bad water and worse food on such a long journey. The more
she thought about it, the more she realized that she could never
subject the troupe to the journey, not even if they had the best
boat in the world to carry them. Not even Marka? She indulged
herself with a few choice curses on Salamander&rsquo;s head.
They could neither take the lass along nor leave her behind, not
now, unless of course Salamander stayed with her. But go alone? She
was willing to admit that the idea of traveling alone across the
southern sea frightened her, in spite of all her dweomer, but she
also knew that if she had to, she would. When she looked up, the
stars hung bright and cold, a vast indifferent sweep dwarfing even
a dweomermaster and her concerns in a tide of light and darkness.
In the spirit of an invalid demanding a lantern in her nighttime
chamber, Jill snapped her fingers and called upon the Wildfolk of
Aethyr. They came, clustering round the decayed stone nymph in the
center of the fountain and shedding a faint but comforting
glow.</p>

<p>The silver light made her think of Dallandra, just idly at
first, until an idea struck home like an arrow. Jill pointed at one
of the spirits hovering nearby.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You know the lands of the Guardians. Fetch Dallandra for
me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The spirit winked out of manifestation, but whether it had truly
understood the command, Jill couldn&rsquo;t say. She waited for a
long time, was, in fact, about to give it up and go back inside
when she saw a wisp of silver light gathering above the
fountain.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Dalla?&rdquo; She breathed out the name.</p>

<p>But it was only an undine, raising itself up as sleek as a water
snake, to stare at her with enormous eyes before vanishing in a
swirl of water. Dressed in her elven clothes, though the amethyst
jewel no longer hung round her neck, Dallandra herself strolled
across the courtyard, as solid as the cobblestones.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t believe I managed it,&rdquo; she remarked,
grinning, and she spoke in Elvish. &ldquo;But it worked, and here I
am. Jill, I&rsquo;ve got so much to tell you. Evandar&rsquo;s found
the islands, first off, and we can take you there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Take me there?&rdquo; Jill felt as muddled as if someone
had just struck her on the head. &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve got a
ship?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, but we don&rsquo;t need one. It&rsquo;s
Evandar&rsquo;s dweomer. But I don&rsquo;t know how many of you we
can&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll be the only person making the trip. I&rsquo;ve
been dreading taking other people along with me. I can&rsquo;t tell
you how grateful I am! For all I knew, we could all drown out
there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Most likely you would.&rdquo; She paused, glancing over
her shoulder at something that only she could see.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve still got to be quick, even though it&rsquo;s
ever so much easier to talk like this. But Evandar said to tell you
something else, that these people respect and honor the dweomer
more than any other thing under the sun and moon, and so
you&rsquo;ll have a welcome there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And I can&rsquo;t tell you how glad I am to hear that,
too! I&rsquo;d been rather wondering about it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No doubt.&rdquo; She flashed a grin. &ldquo;When do you
want to go? I imagine that you&rsquo;ve got farewells to
make.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And some gear to get together. And, well, there&rsquo;s
somewhat I&rsquo;ve got to do before I leave, not that
Salamander&rsquo;s going to thank me for it, I suppose. I
don&rsquo;t suppose we can set a time, anyway. If I say a
fortnight, how will you know when that comes round?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s difficult, yes. I do have a plan.
There&rsquo;s a place that I can wait, one that&rsquo;s next to
your world, you see, and so its Time runs a little closer to yours.
Get yourself ready, and I&rsquo;ll come to you as soon as I can. Send me
one of the Wildfolk for a messenger.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Splendid. And you have my thanks and a thousand times my
thanks.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Most welcome.&rdquo; She paused again, staring down at
the ground and frowning. &ldquo;The child. She&rsquo;s going to
have to be born soon, because there&rsquo;s trouble brewing in our
lands. I can&rsquo;t explain. I only half understand it myself. But
it&rsquo;s going to have to be soon.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All at once a thought struck Jill. It might well be that
Salamander and his new wife would serve the dweomer whether he
wanted to or no.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Tell me something. Could the child be born here? In the
islands, I mean?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, not at all. All the omens, and what little logic
there is in this thing, for that matter, say she has to be born
into the Wesdands.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s a pity.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Why?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, just that I know a new husband who might make a
splendid father for such a child,&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good, because, you see, there&rsquo;ll be other children
born later, lots and lots&mdash;at least, if I can carry this thing
off. Jill, at times I&rsquo;m frightened.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, for what my help is worth, you have it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s worth a very great deal.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They clasped hands and shared a smile. Jill was surprised at how
warm and solid Dallandra&rsquo;s hand felt; she&rsquo;d been
expecting some cool etheric touch.</p>

<p>&ldquo;If great things are on the move,&rdquo; Jill said,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d best wrap up my affairs here and get on my way
back to Deverry.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;When the time draws near, I&rsquo;ll take you back to Deverry,
have no fear about that. I&rsquo;ve so many marvels to tell you about, to
show you, once we&rsquo;ve time to talk together for a while, but
now&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Yes, I understand. You&rsquo;d best go. It&rsquo;s almost
dawn, and if other people find you here, they&rsquo;ll ask
questions.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dallandra walked toward the inn-yard gates, turned once to wave,
then vanished in a glimmer of gray dawn light. Marvels, indeed!
Jill thought. All at once she laughed aloud, thinking what a
wonderful jest it would be on Salamander, if indeed he ended up
fathering the body for some dweomer-touched child. Even Nevyn, she
supposed, would have been able to see the humor in this for all that
the old man could be downright grim more often than not.</p>
<br>

<p class="noindent">When Dallandra mentioned trouble brewing, she meant nothing more
than the ill will that Alshandra bore her, but as things turned out
she&rsquo;d spoken more truly than she knew. After she left Jill at
the inn yard, she traveled back through the twisting roads and the
mists to Evandar&rsquo;s country. He was waiting for her on the
hilltop, standing alone and looking down through the night to the
meadow where his people danced by torchlight. The music drifted up
to them on the wind, harp and drum and flute.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve come back,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;My heart
ached the whole time you were gone.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Did you think I&rsquo;d desert you so soon?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I no longer know what to think. I thought I was so clever at
jests and riddles, and now you&rsquo;ve posed me a riddle that I
can&rsquo;t answer.&rdquo; He shook his head and made his yellow
hair toss tike a horse&rsquo;s mane. &ldquo;I take it you found
Jill?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I did, and she&rsquo;ll follow our road with heartfelt
thanks. But what do you mean, a riddle you can&rsquo;t
answer?&rdquo;</p>

<p>All at once the life flashed in his turquoise eyes, and he
grinned.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now that I shan&rsquo;t tell you, because it&rsquo;s a
riddle of mine to top the one you posed me. Or perhaps we can say
that&mdash;&rdquo; He hesitated, listening.</p>

<p>Dallandra heard it, too, a thin shriek on the rising wind.
Together without need for words they turned and hurled themselves
into the air, he a hawk, suddenly, a red hawk from Deverry, while
she changed to her usual shape of some gray and indeterminate
songbird, both of them with wingspreads of fully fifteen feet
across. They banked into the rising wind and rode it down, swooping
over the grassy hillside to the flowered meadow where now the court
screamed and ran about in confusion. In the darkening night torches
guttered and sparked.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Elessario!&rdquo; The cry drifted up to them.
&ldquo;She&rsquo;s been taken!&rdquo;</p>

<p>The hawk screamed, a harsh
cry, and changed course for the river. Dallandra followed, praying
for moonlight, and as if in answer a moon began to appear on the
horizon, vast and bloated, casting a sickly yellow tight. Far below
on the oily river she saw a shape, like a splinter of wood from
their height, pushing itself upstream. Evandar stooped and plunged.
More slowly in prudent circles Dallandra followed him down and saw
a black barge, rowed by slaves, churning against the current. In
the prow stood Alshandra, and she seemed that night some ten feet
high, a warrior woman dressed in glittering armor, nocking an arrow
in her bow. Screaming, the hawk plunged down and upon her before
she could aim and loose. His massive claws raked her face and his
beak tore at her arms as she fell to the deck, howling in rage,
clubbing him with the bow.</p>

<p>Bound round with black chains Elessario crouched, sobbing, some
feet away. Dallandra understood enough about this country by then
to keep her wits. She landed on the deck and shed her bird-form
like a cloak.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Break the chains!&rdquo; she snapped. &ldquo;Just flex
your arms, and they&rsquo;ll fall right off.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Elessario followed orders and laughed aloud when the chains
turned to water and puddled at her feet. With a howl of rage
Alshandra threw the hawk to one side and hauled herself to her
knees. Boat, slaves, armor, night&mdash;they all vanished as
suddenly as the chains. In the golden sun of a late afternoon they
stood in elven form on the grassy riverbank while the chattering
Host swarmed round.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, go away, all of you!&rdquo; Alshandra snarled.</p>

<p>Laughing and calling out to one another they fled. Dallandra put
an arm round Elessario&rsquo;s shoulders and drew her close while
Alshandra and Evandar faced each other, both dressed in court
clothes, now, cloth-of-gold tunics, diadems of gold and jewels, and
their cloaks, tipped in fur, seemed made of silver satin. And yet,
across her cheek ran the bleeding rake of a hawk&rsquo;s talon, and
on his face swelled a purple bruise.</p>

<p>&ldquo;She&rsquo;s my daughter, and I shall take her wherever I
want,&rdquo; Alshandra said.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Not unless she goes willingly, and the chains show she
was less than willing. Where were you going to take her? Farther
in?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s no affair of yours.&rdquo; Alshandra turned
on Dalla. &ldquo;You may have my man, because I tired of him long
before you came to us, but you shall not have my
daughter.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want her for my sake. I only want her to
have the life that should be hers, that should be yours, truly, as
well.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With a shimmer of tight Alshandra changed her form, becoming
old, wrinkled, pathetic in black rags.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll take her far away, far, far away, and never
shall I see her again.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Come with her, then. Follow her, the way all of your
people are going to do. Join us all in life.&rdquo; Dallandra
glanced Elessario&rsquo;s way. &ldquo;Do you want to go with your
mother?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No, I want to stay with you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Alshandra howled, swelling up tall and strong, dressed like a
hunter in her doeskin tunic and boots, the bow clasped in
red-veined hands.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Have it your way, witch! You&rsquo;ll lose this battle in
the end. I swear it. I&rsquo;ve found some as will help me, back in
that ugly little world of yours. I&rsquo;ve made friends there,
powerful friends. They&rsquo;ll get me my daughter back the moment
she tries to leave us. I&rsquo;ll make them promise, and I know
they will, because they grovel at my feet, they do.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She was gone, winking out like a blown flame, but all round them
the wind seemed cold and the sunlight, shadowed. Shaking and pale,
Elessario leaned into Dallandra&rsquo;s clasp.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Friends? Groveling?&rdquo; Evandar said. &ldquo;I wonder
what she means by that. I very much do. I&rsquo;d say it bodes ill,
an ill-omened thing all round.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;d never argue with you.&rdquo; Dalla felt her
voice as very small and weak. &ldquo;We&rsquo;d best try to find
out what she means by friends.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Will the finding be a safe thing? I don&rsquo;t know,
mind. I&rsquo;m asking you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know, either. Can&rsquo;t we get away from
all this music and the noise and ail?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course. Ell, I fear to leave you alone. Come with
us.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m so tired, Father. I don&rsquo;t want
to.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not going to leave you sleeping beside the river
like a falcon&rsquo;s lure. I&mdash;&rdquo; All at once he smiled.
&ldquo;Very well, my love, my daughter, my darling. Rest you shall
have. Dalla, if you&rsquo;ll step here to my side?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Puzzled, Dallandra did just that. Evandar raised one hand and
waved out a circle that seemed to float from his fingers and ring
his daughter round. He chanted, too, in some language that
Dallandra had never heard before, just softly, briefly while
Elessario yawned, reaching up to rub her eyes. It seemed that the
wind caught her hair and tossed it, spread it out around her as she
reached up higher, grabbed at it, her fingers turning long and
slender, growing out, her arms reaching, stretching, stiffening,
suddenly, as gray-brown bark wrapped her body round, and her hair,
all green and gold, sprouted into leaves. A young oak tree, some
seven feet tall and slender, nodded in the evening wind.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Alshandra the Inelegant will never think to look for her
there,&rdquo; Evandar remarked. &ldquo;She truly can be a bit thick
at times.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dallandra merely stared, gape-mouthed, until he took her hand
and led her away.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">While Evandar was confronting his wife in his strange homeland,
in the world of men Jill was trying to discharge what she saw as
her obligation to Salamander before she moved on. After the triumph
at Myleton Noa, the troupe set sail, falling into the routine of
sailing down the coast some miles, then disembarking at yet another
sodden hamlet, where they would be received like kings. Jill had
the distinct feeling that Salamander was avoiding her. When
everyone was crammed on board the small and smelly coaster, it was
of course impossible to get a word alone with him. On land,
whenever she went looking for him for their talk about his studies,
he always seemed to be negotiating with an innkeep, or teaching a
member of the troupe a juggling trick, or solving some problem
among the acrobats, or arranging their next show. Finally, though,
one evening in a good-sized town called Injaro, he made the mistake
of leaving the dinner table early while Marka stayed behind to
gossip with her friends. Jill followed him upstairs and cornered
him in his inn chamber.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Uh, I was just going back down,&rdquo; he squeaked.
&ldquo;I have to talk to Vinto and make sure the troupe&rsquo;s
ready to take ship. We&rsquo;re leaving on the dawn tide, you
know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Indeed? Then why have you lit all these lamps?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Er, just looking for somewhat. Are you all packed and
ready for the journey? Best make sure you are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Stop driveling.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With a heavy sigh Salamander sank down onto an enormous purple
cushion and gestured at her to find a seat opposite him. Sitting so
close, she could smell the scent of sweet wine clinging to him and
see the dark circles smudged under his puffy eyes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I was only wondering how your studies were going.&rdquo;
She made her voice as mild as possible.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t done one rotten thing, and you know that
as well as I do. Jill, I&rsquo;m so cursed weary!&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, then, when do you plan to take them up again?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Never.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The last thing she&rsquo;d expected was candor. He went so
wide-eyed and tense that she knew he&rsquo;d shocked himself, too,
but though she waited, he refused to back down, merely watched the
insects swarming round the oil lamps and let the silence grow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Do you truly think you can just turn your back and walk
away from the dweomer?&rdquo; she said at last.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I intend to try.&rdquo; His hands were shaking so hard
that he clamped them down on his thighs. &ldquo;I am sick to my
heart of being badgered and prodded.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What&rsquo;s brought all this on?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I should think it would be clear, plain, obvious, and
evident. I&rsquo;ve found a thing that I want more than dweomer
power.&rdquo; He paused for one of his sunny smiles, and never had
the gesture seemed less appropriate. &ldquo;A normal life, Jill, a
normal life. Does that have one shred of meaning for the likes of
you?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What are you talking about? What&rsquo;s so splendid
about traveling the roads with a troupe of mangy acrobats and this
poor child you&rsquo;ve married?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course it&rsquo;s not splendid. That&rsquo;s the
point.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re a dolt, Eba&ntilde;y.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, I suppose I must look that way to you, truly. I no
longer care. I&rsquo;ve found the woman I love, and I&rsquo;ve found a way
to have a family of my own while we travel the roads, just like
I&rsquo;ve always loved to do, and cursed, plagued, excoriated,
blighted, and scourged will I be before I give one whit of it
up.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not asking you to give up one thing, just to
develop the talent you were born with.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Talent? Oh, ye gods!&rdquo; All at once he exploded,
talking much too fast, his voice hissing as he tried to keep from
shouting. &ldquo;I am so sick of that ugly little word. Do you
think I ever asked for it? Talent. Oh, certainly, I know I have
talent for magic. That&rsquo;s all I&rsquo;ve ever heard in my long
and cursed life, from the time that my wretched father dragged me
to meet Aderyn when I was but a little child. Talent. You have
splendid talent for the dweomer. You must study it. It would be a
waste to not study it. Your people need you to study it. No one,
not one blasted soul, whether elven or human, not one person in the
entire world has ever asked me if I wanted to study the blasted
dweomer. All they did was push and press and mock and nag until by
every god in the sky I&rsquo;m sick of the very name of
dweomer.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My heart aches for you, but&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you be sarcastic with me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I wasn&rsquo;t. I&rsquo;m trying to point out
that&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to hear it! By the black hairy ass of
the Lord of Hell, Jill, can&rsquo;t you see? I&rsquo;ve finally found what
I want in life, and I&rsquo;ll have it no matter how many platitudes and
how much invective you heap upon my head.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Whoever said you couldn&rsquo;t have it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;The dweomer itself. How can you sit there and tell me
that I could have both, you of all people on this blasted
earth?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill came perilously close to slapping him. Her rage at having
that ancient wound reopened took her so much by surprise that for a
long moment she couldn&rsquo;t speak. When he shrank back, suddenly
pale, suddenly weak&mdash;cringing, or so she thought of
it&mdash;the rage turned as cold as a steel blade on a winter
morning. She got up slowly and stood for a moment, her hands on her
hips, looking down as he crouched on the cushion, one hand raised
as if to ward off a blow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oho, I think I do see.&rdquo; She could hear her voice
crack like a boot breaking ice. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a
coward.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He was on his feet in a moment, red-faced and shaking with a
rage to match hers.</p>

<p>&ldquo;After all I&rsquo;ve risked for you, after all I&rsquo;ve done
for you&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You haven&rsquo;t done one thing for me. You&rsquo;ve
done it for the dweomer and the Light.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t give a&mdash;&rdquo; He caught himself on
the edge of blasphemy. &ldquo;So I did. Wasn&rsquo;t that enough,
then, everything I suffered for the Light?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You can&rsquo;t measure out service like so many sacks of
meal and say &lsquo;enough, no more.&rsquo; But that doesn&rsquo;t matter
anyway. My road isn&rsquo;t your road. I couldn&rsquo;t have Rhodry
and the dweomer both, but there&rsquo;s no reason on earth you
can&rsquo;t raise your family and study as well. If I&rsquo;d
married, my life would have been my husband&rsquo;s. That&rsquo;s a
woman&rsquo;s Wyrd, not yours. You can have
Marka&rsquo;s life and yours as well. You&rsquo;re just too
cursed lazy to study, aren&rsquo;t you? That&rsquo;s the ugly truth
of it. Lazy and a coward.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mock and goad me all you want. I&rsquo;ve made my
decision.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well and good, then. Far be it from me to stop you. Not
one thing on this earth or over it or under it can force you to
take up the birthright you&rsquo;re throwing away. But cursed and
twice cursed if I linger to watch you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She turned on her heel and spun out of the chamber, slamming the
door behind her, and strode down the narrow hall that stank of dust
and damp in the cloying heat. She meant to go for a walk in the
night air and let them both come to their senses, but he was
furious enough to follow her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I am sick half to death of you lording it over me,&rdquo;
he snarled. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you think I know you despise
me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Naught of the sort! I&rsquo;m merely sick at heart to see
you pissing your life away into a puddle.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, am I now? Is that all you think Marka is? A waste of
my most exalted and ever so talented self?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course not! It&rsquo;s got naught to do with the
lass.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s got everything to do with her. That&rsquo;s what you
don&rsquo;t understand. You&rsquo;re just like Nevyn, Jill. As cold
and nasty hearted as ever the old man was.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you say one word against Nevyn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The snarl in her voice frightened even her. He stopped in
midreply and stepped back against the wall as if she were a thief
come to murder him.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You spoiled stinking mincing little fop,&rdquo; she went
on. &ldquo;Have it your way, then. My curse upon you!&rdquo;</p>

<p>She slammed out of the inn, strode across the courtyard, slammed
out of the gates, and stomped off for a long walk round the town.
Wildfolk clustered round her like an army, and whether it was her
rage or their unseen but bristling presence, she didn&rsquo;t know,
but no one, not one single thief or drunkard, so much as came near
her all during that long aimless trek. Through the muddy streets of
Injaro, out into the surrounding cleared land along a rutted
road&mdash;only the light from the Wildfolk of Aethyr kept her from
breaking her neck and ending that particular incarnation then and
there. All at once she realized that she&rsquo;d gone dangerously
far from the town, no matter how much dweomer she had, and turned
back. For all that she&rsquo;d walked herself exhausted, she still
was too angry to judge Salamander fairly.</p>

<p>Toward dawn her wandering brought her back to a small rise
overlooking the harbor, where she paused among a tangle of huge
ferns, as big as trees, to catch her breath. Down below, out at the
end of a long jetty, a boat lay at anchor in a pool of torchlight.
Like ants the troupe moved back and forth, hauling their personal
goods for the sailors to stow below. At the landward end of the
jetty, Salamander was supervising while a pair of stevedores
unloaded the troupe&rsquo;s props and stage from a wagon. Jill
swore aloud. She&rsquo;d forgotten how early the tide would turn
for their journey out. Fortunately there was still plenty of time
left. She could trot right down, tell Salamander that she was going
back to the inn for her pack and suchlike, then return to the
coaster before they sailed.</p>

<p>For a long time she stood there, leaning against one of the tree
ferns, and wondered why she wasn&rsquo;t hurrying. Already out to
the east the sky was beginning to lighten to the furry gray that
meant dawn coming. Her gnome appeared to grab the hem of her shirt
and pull on it as if he wanted to lead her to the ship. She picked
him up in her arms and made sure she had his attention.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Go tell Dallandra it&rsquo;s time. Find her among the
Guardians. She&rsquo;ll know who sent you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In a puff of moldy air the gnome vanished. Jill watched the
bustle at the pier. It seemed that everyone was on board, but
Salamander lingered on land, looking up the road into the town,
pacing back and forth, pausing to stare again. When the captain
left the ship and walked over to argue with him, Salamander waved
his arms in the air and shook his head in a stubborn no. The sky
was all silver now, and already the heat of day was building in the
humid air. Jill had one last stab of doubt. Was she simply being
stubborn? Was she deserting a friend, and him one she&rsquo;d known
for years and years? Yet with the cold intuition of the dweomer she
knew that she was doing the right thing, that she could no more
force him to take up his Wyrd before he wished than Nevyn had been
able to force her, all those years ago.</p>

<p>At last, Salamander flung both hands into the air, shook his
head, and followed the captain on board. Just as the ship was pulling away from
the jetty, the gray gnome appeared, all grins
and bows. Jill picked him up again and held him like a child
clutching a doll as she watched the ship sail away, heading south on a
rising wind, until it disappeared into the opalescent dawn. In
the day&rsquo;s fresh heat, sweat trickled down her back.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, we can hope, at least, that the Elder Brothers
found themselves a better island to settle than this one, but
somehow or other, I have my doubts.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The gnome mugged a mournful face, then disappeared.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">The ship had sailed some miles down the coast before
Marka realized that something was wrong with Salamander. She
was standing in the stern of the boat, watching the wake and
chatting with the helmsman, when a grim Keeta made her way
back through the piles of trunks and boxes.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Marka, you&rsquo;d best tend to that husband of yours.
He&rsquo;s up in front.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When she hurried forward, Keeta followed, but she hovered a
respectful distance away, back by the mast. At the prow,
Salamander was leaning onto the wale as if he were a lookout, but
she could tell that he was staring off toward nothing and  seeing
nothing as well.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Eba&ntilde;y?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He neither moved nor seemed to hear. For a moment she felt
paralyzed by a sudden mad fear, that no words of hers would
ever reach him, that if she tried to touch him her hand
would pass right through his arm, that never again would
he hear when she tried to speak. As if a waking nightmare had
dropped over her like a net the light turned strange, all
blue and cold for the briefest of moments. She could not speak,
knowing that he would never hear. She caught her breath in
a sob, and he spun round, masking his face in a smile.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, we&rsquo;re under way nice and early, aren&rsquo;t
we?&rdquo;</p>

<p>The illusion shattered. Ordinary sunlight danced on the sea
and fell warm on her skin and hair. Yet, when he went on
smiling, she felt as if he&rsquo;d slapped her, that he would hide his
hurt this way.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I thought something was wrong.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, no, no. Just thinking.&rdquo;</p>

<p>In her sudden misery
she could only study his face and wonder if he still loved her.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Salamander?&rdquo; Keeta strode forward.
&ldquo;Where&rsquo;s Jill?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, she&rsquo;s not coming with
us. There&rsquo;s really nothing she in these stinking islands, so
she&rsquo;ll be catching a ship back to Orystinna.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Really?&rdquo; Keeta raised one eyebrow.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just
that.&rdquo; Eba&ntilde;y smiled again, easily and smoothly.
&ldquo;She&rsquo;s got her work to do, you know, and she could see
that she&rsquo;s not going to find any rare books in these rotting
little towns.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s certainly true enough.&rdquo; Keeta
hesitated, on the edge of asking more. &ldquo;I always
wondered why she came out with us in the first place. But do you
think she&rsquo;ll be all right?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My dear woman!&rdquo; Eba&ntilde;y laughed aloud.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve never known anyone better able to take care of
herself than Jill.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Keeta nodded, considering, then smiled
herself.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s most likely true, too. Just
wondering. I&rsquo;m surprised she didn&rsquo;t say good-bye, but
then, she&rsquo;s not the kind of woman who likes a long drawn-out
parting. You can see that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Eba&ntilde;y kept smiling until she wandered off, picking her way
through the deck cargo in search of Delya; then he flung himself
round and leaned onto the wale again, staring out as if he were
struggling not to cry. Marka could think of nothing to do but lean
next to him and wait. Ahead the sea stretched out like a road,
green-blue and flecked with brown kelp. Gulls darted and shrieked in the rising sun.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Ah, well,&rdquo; Eba&ntilde;y said at last. &ldquo;Even
old friends must part, sooner or later, I suppose.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Are you going to miss Jill?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded a yes, staring off to sea.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, darling,&rdquo; Marka felt like sobbing in relief,
just from having something to say. &ldquo;If the show keeps doing so
well, maybe can go to Deverry someday and see her again. If
she&rsquo;s at this Wmmglaedd place, we&rsquo;ll know where to find her.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He turned to look at her, and this time his smile was genuine.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Maybe so. Somehow I managed to forget that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Silly.&rdquo; She laid her hand on his arm. &ldquo;My
beloved idiot.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You do love me, don&rsquo;t you? Truly, truly love
me?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What? More than my life.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t say that.&rdquo; He grabbed her by the
shoulders so tightly that it hurt. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
ill-omened.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;But do you love me? Oh, by the gods! If you don&rsquo;t
love me, I&rsquo;ve&mdash;&rdquo; His voice caught in a sob.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Of course I love you. I love you so much I can&rsquo;t
even say.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry.&rdquo; He let her go, caught her again,
but gently this time. &ldquo;Forgive me, my love. I&rsquo;ll admit
to having had days when I&rsquo;ve been in better humor.&rdquo; He kissed
her mouth. &ldquo;Why don&rsquo;t you leave me to my fit, sulk,
temperament, or whatever this may be?&rdquo;</p>

<p>All morning he stood there alone, brooding over the sea and sky.
Marka had a sudden premonition that had nothing to do with
dweomer, that even if their marriage lasted for fifty years or
more, she would never truly know her husband, realized it then,
when by every law in Bardek and Deverry both it was far too late to
change her mind. She also remembered the old fortune-teller in
Luvilae. The knave of flowers, she thought. That&rsquo;s who it
was: Eba&ntilde;y. I&rsquo;ve married the knave of flowers, and I&rsquo;ll
never be the princess now.</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">After she watched the ship sail out of sight, Jill returned to
the inn, paid off the bills that the troupe had left behind them,
then gathered a pack&rsquo;s worth of possessions: her clothes, the
various maps and bits of manuscripts that she&rsquo;d found in the
archipelago, a judicious selection of herbs and oddments, then in a
fit of thrift stored the rest with the innkeep, just as if she
might come back again someday. Laden like a peddler she strolled
out of town by the west gate and followed the road, keeping more on
the solid shoulder than the mucky middle, for about a mile. As soon
as she turned off into the tangled forest, she saw Dallandra,
waiting for her between two trees. In the sunlight the elven woman
seemed as insubstantial as a wisp of fog caught in branches.</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re ready?&rdquo; Dalla said, &ldquo;Now
remember, Time runs differently, even on our borders. We
won&rsquo;t seem to be in the Gatelands very long, but we might
come out again years later or suchlike. We have to travel
fast.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Together they walked through the dappled shade and between the
enormous trees. At first Jill thought that nothing had happened,
but then she realized that the thick jungle foliage was so intense
a green that it seemed fashioned from emerald. When she took a few
steps, she saw ahead of her windblown billows of grass. She spun
round and found the jungle gone, swallowed by a mist hanging in the
air, opalescent in a delicate flood of grays and lavenders shot
through with pinks and blues. As she watched, the mist swelled,
surged, and wrapped them round in welcome cold.</p>

<p>&ldquo;There,&rdquo; Dallandra said. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re not
truly in your body anymore, you see.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill felt a weight round her neck and found, hanging from a
golden chain, a tiny statuette of herself carved from obsidian.
Dallandra laughed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Mine&rsquo;s of amethyst. That&rsquo;s rather rude of
Evandar, to use blackstone for you. It&rsquo;s so grim.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, it suits me well enough.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Ahead three roads stretched out pale across the grasslands. One
road led to the left and a stand of dark hills, so bleak and
glowering that she knew they had no part in any country that
Dallandra would call home. One road led to the right and a sudden
rise of mountains, pale and gleaming in pure air beyond the mist,
their tops shrouded in snow so bright that it seemed as if they
were lighted from within. Straight ahead on the misty flat
stretched the third. Dressed in elven clothes, a man was walking to
meet them down that middle way, whistling as he came, his hair an
impossible yellow, bright as daffodils. When he drew close Jill
noticed that his eyes were an unnatural sky-blue and his lips red
as cherries. She felt magical power streaming from him as palpably
as she felt the mist.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Good morrow, fair lady.&rdquo; He spoke in Deverrian.
&ldquo;My true love tells me that you wish to hurry on your way and
not linger here in my beloved land. What a pity, for I&rsquo;ve many a
marvel to show you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;No doubt, and truly, I&rsquo;m honored by your
invitation, but
I&rsquo;ve another kind of marvel to find. If I remember the
tales about you rightly, it&rsquo;s one that I think you&rsquo;d
find interesting yourself, the island refuge of the sea
elves.&rdquo;</p>

<p>He grinned, revealing teeth that were more than a little
sharp.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And someday, perhaps, I&rsquo;ll come visit you
there.&rdquo; He turned to Dallandra. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve found the
road we want. Shall we travel it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>For an answer she merely smiled and caught his hand. Jill walked
alongside as they sauntered off down the middle road, as casually
as a lady and her lover taking a stroll through the park lands of
his estate. All round the mist hovered, parting directly ahead in
swirls of watery sunlight to reveal dark mounds of trees. Off to
her right she could hear a distant ocean crashing big waves onto
some unseen shore.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Those three roads you saw at first? They&rsquo;re the
mothers of all roads,&rdquo; Evandar remarked. &ldquo;Men and
elves, every thinking creature under all the suns
everywhere&mdash;they like to think they&rsquo;re following a road
of their own building, don&rsquo;t they? But all those earthly
roads are just the daughters of one of these three.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Indeed?&rdquo; Jill said. &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t argue with
you when you could well be right, for all I know.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;And since the three are the mothers of all earthly roads,
all those earthly roads start and end here. You can move from one
to another and come out where you choose, providing, of course,
that you know how to get here in the first place.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see.&rdquo; Jill allowed herself a smile.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s the trick, is it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Just so.&rdquo; He smiled in return. &ldquo;And not so
easy a trick to learn.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I well believe that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now, of course, I could show you that trick, if
you&rsquo;d care to stay and learn it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill felt a pang of temptation as strong as a stab of pain, but
she merely laughed and shook her head no.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;m grateful for the offer, mind. But I&rsquo;ve
got a bit of work on my hands just now.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Your choice, of course.&rdquo; Evandar bowed, a
half-mocking sweep of his arm. &ldquo;Now, it does take a bit of
learning to untangle the roads from their mothers. It&rsquo;s
rather like a tapestry weaver&rsquo;s remnants, a big basket of
yarn of all colors, all tangled up together, and pulling just one
strand free without knotting it round the rest isn&rsquo;t such an
easy thing to do. Which is why we&rsquo;d best stop for a moment
and let me think.&rdquo;</p>

<p>They had reached a low rise, dropping gently down in front of
them to another wide and grassy plain, crisscrossed with tiny
streams and dotted with thickets of trees. Off on a far horizon in
a gathering mist Jill could just make out a rise of towers, all
white stone flecked with the occasional glint of gold, as if some
mighty city stood there. Although Evandar had talked of many roads,
she could only see one, meandering through the plain like a stream.
He seemed to hear her thought.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It&rsquo;s all in the walking, which road you end up
traveling. They all do look alike at first. Come along, we&rsquo;ll
just head down past those gray stones, there.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Now that he pointed them out, Jill could indeed see the
boulders, shoving themselves clear of the earth about halfway down
the rise. As they strolled past, she noticed that the stones seemed
worked, shaped into flat slabs with some crude tool, and arranged
into a roughly circular ring.</p>

<p>&ldquo;We turn here, I think,&rdquo; Evandar said.</p>

<p>The sun turned brighter by a sudden streamside, all dappled with
coins of gold light and bordered with a spill of yellow
wildflowers. Even though it seemed they had traveled a long way,
Jill could still hear the mutter of the invisible ocean.</p>

<p>&ldquo;And what of the sea roads? Do all ships sail on that sea
I hear over there somewhere?&rdquo; She waved vaguely in the
direction of the sound. &ldquo;Is there a harbor where all sailors
come to port?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There is, truly. Again, if they can find their way to it.
If. Your ancestors sailed that sea when Cadwallon the Druid brought
them free of slavery and defeat in the land they called Gallia.
But, of course, you know that.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;What?&rdquo; Jill stopped walking and turned to him.
&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know in the least. What are you
saying?&rdquo;</p>

<p>Evandar tossed his head back and laughed.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Cadwallon was a splendid man, if a bit dour at times. I
knew him well, my lady. Now, if only you&rsquo;d come take the
hospitality of my hall, there&rsquo;s many a tale I could tell
you.&rdquo;</p>

<p>When Jill wavered, Dallandra intervened, shooting a scowl in his
direction.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t listen to him, Jill. You&rsquo;ve not got
years and years of idle time to waste over a goblet of
mead.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You are a harsh one, my love.&rdquo; But Evandar was
laughing. &ldquo;Unfortunately, you speak true, and it would be too
unscrupulous even for me to tempt our guest further. Look, see
where the sun&rsquo;s breaking through? I think me that it shines
on the island you&rsquo;re looking for.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The mist ahead opened like a door and let through sunlight in a
solid shaft. As they came close Jill felt the steamy heat of a
tropical day streaming out to meet them.</p>

<p>&ldquo;A thousand thanks, Evandar. Dalla, will I see you
again?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, to tell you the truth, I was thinking of coming
with you, just for a little while.&rdquo; She glanced at her
glowering lover. &ldquo;To you it&rsquo;ll be but
moments.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;So it will, and go with my blessing, as long as you come
back.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, that I will.&rdquo; Dallandra flashed a wicked smile.
&ldquo;This time.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Before he could protest farther she dropped his hand and strode
forward into the shaft of sun. When Jill hurried after, the light
was so strong that it burned her eyes and made them blink and
water. Blind and stumbling, she stepped forward and fell to her
knees in soft sand.</p>

<p>&ldquo;&rdquo;Ych, this is awful,&rdquo; Dalandra remarked, from
nearby. &ldquo;I feel like I&rsquo;m made of lead, and I&rsquo;ve
tripped over some driftwood or somewhat.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Finally, after a lot of swearing and muttering, Jill got her
sight back and realized that they were kneeling on a beach under a
blazing; sun that lay halfway between the zenith and the
horizon&mdash;whether it was setting or rising, Jill
couldn&rsquo;t know. Off to her left the ocean stretched
glittering; to her right, cliffs of pale sandstone rose up high;
ahead the white sand ran, on, and on. Wildfolk swarmed
round, climbing into their laps, patting their arms with nervous
paws. Dallandra rose to her knees and shaded her eyes with one hand
to frown up at the clifftops. Her figurine was gone, and when Jill
automatically laid a hand at her own throat, she found that hers
had vanished as well. She also realized that she could feel her
pack on her back again; it had seemed to weigh nothing at all in
the misty lands of the Guardians. For a moment Dallandra stood,
looking this way and that, chewing on her lower lip in hard
thought.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Wait! I can just see&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;a long
ways down the coast there. Look at those black dots wheeling round
in the sky.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t make them out at all.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;My apologies; I forget you&rsquo;re not elven. But I can
just see what looks like birds, wheeling round and diving and
suchlike. I&rsquo;ll wager there&rsquo;s a river mouth, and where
there&rsquo;s a river mouth there might be a harbor.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;True spoken. There&rsquo;ll be fresh water at least, and
fish and suchlike.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll need food, truly. Are you sure you should do
this?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have much choice, do I? Don&rsquo;t worry,
Dalla. I&rsquo;ve spent many a long year alone in wild places, and
I have the elementals, too, to help me if need be.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well and good, then. And I&rsquo;ll be listening for you.
If you call me, I&rsquo;ll come. It may take me a while, but I
will.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;You have my thanks, and so does Evandar.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Dallandra smiled, then turned and began walking toward the sea,
heading for a place where it seemed the sun laid a road of gold
across the water. She waded out into the gentle waves, seemed to
step onto the golden road, and disappeared like mist vanishing in
the glare of sun. She apparently knew the trick, as Evandar had
called it, of traveling to the home of the three mothers of all
roads.</p>

<p>Jill allowed herself the luxury of a brief moment of envying
her, then made herself concentrate on the job at hand. The wildfolk
were still clustering round, undines thronging all silver in
the breaking waves, sylphs and sprites hovering overhead,
crystal glimpses in the strong sun. At the head of a pack of warty
green and purple gnomes, her faithful gray fellow was wandering
around, poking at the sand with a piece of stick. When Jill called
him, he trotted over, the others straggling slowly after.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Now look, I need your help. You know who the Elder
Brothers are.&rdquo;</p>

<p>The gray gnome nodded and grinned, revealing a mouthful of
needle-sharp teeth. The purple fellows were suddenly all attention.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, somewhere around here they have a city, somewhere away from
the shore, most like. I need to know where it is.&rdquo;</p>

<p>With a scatter of sand they all disappeared, leaving her to hope
they&rsquo;d understood her.</p>

<p>Sticking to the hard-packed sand at the water&rsquo;s edge, Jill
headed down the beach, keeping the cliffs to her left&mdash;going
south, she finally decided, once the sun had moved enough for her
to judge that it was setting, not rising. It was a long time before
she could see the specks wheeling and diving that Dallandra had
noticed, and longer still before those specks did indeed resolve
themselves into white birds. At that point she realized as well
that the land was sloping ever so gently down, and that the cliffs
rose lower and lower, finally petering out ahead in a last curve of
broken hill. She could also see a brownish surge of water heading
out from land and flowing across the ocean. So Dallandra had found
her a river, indeed, and Jill was glad of it. In the blazing heat
she wanted a swim in fresh water as badly as she was beginning to
need the shade of the trees that bordered it.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, when she reached the shallows of the estuary, she
found crocodiles, piled on a tumble of gray rocks or flopped onto
each other as they lazed on the mud among stands of water reeds.
Although Jill started to count them, she gave up after fifty. While
the creatures blinked and drowsed in the afternoon sun, little
brown birds walked among and over them without the crocodiles even
noticing, but Jill had no desire to try the trick herself. She got
one of her water bottles out of her pack and had a long
swallow&mdash;warm, tasting of leather, but at least it was wet.
If, as seemed likely, the river got deeper and ran faster upstream,
she&rsquo;d be able to find a safer spot to drink later.</p>

<p>By then the sun was sinking off in the west, and with the</p>
cooler air of evening came swarms of insects, rising like a
mist from the riverbanks. Deep in the jungle ahead birds began to
call back and forth. With a yawn and a grunt, a few of the
crocodiles scrambled out of the pack and flopped into the river.
Birds screeched a warning and flew. Jill decided that she&rsquo;d
be better off with a good stretch of dry land between her and them.
Rather than face the night jungle she hurried back to the beach and
went back the way she&rsquo;d come for some hundreds of yards. Well
above the current waterline she found the bleached-gray trunk of an
entire tree, its roots all twisted with dead kelp, and a long
scatter of smaller pieces of driftwood, plenty of bone-dry fuel for
a fire. Crocodiles, she assumed, would dislike fire as much as
other wild animals did. She swung her pack free of her aching
shoulders, set it down in the shade of the trunk, and set about
making camp.</p>

<p>As she was gathering small chunks and sticks, she discovered her
first concrete bit of evidence that Evandar had indeed found her
the right island. Lying half-buried in the sand was a broken plank,
cut and curved in such a way that it could only have come from a
ship. It might, of course, have been nothing more than wrack from
some Bardek merchanter, carried hundreds and hundreds of miles by
the currents, but she preferred to doubt it. In the last of the
day&rsquo;s light she scurried round, searching for more driftwood,
scrabbling like a mole in the sand, until at last, just as the
twilight was growing thick and gray, she unearthed a flat panel of
wood that must have once formed the side of a chest or back of a
bench. It seemed to be the splintered half of a big oblong, and it
was carved with designs that no Bardekian would have drawn.</p>

<p>Once she got a fire going with less interesting driftwood, Jill
studied her discovery by firelight streaked blue from the sea salt
impregnating the wood. Although the panel was bleached and
blistering, she discovered on one edge two indentations that could
only have been made by hinges&mdash;so it was part of a chest,
indeed. With her fingertip she could trace a long pattern of vines
and flowers, looping casually, almost randomly across the entire
surface rather than being contained in strict bands, such as a
Bardekian craftsman would have chosen, and among the foliage were
the little faces of Wildfolk. On the reverse side of the panel she
found deep-graved letters, recognizably elven though somewhat
different from the profuse syllabary she&rsquo;d learned.</p>

<p>Enough of the symbols were familiar for her to make a stab at
deciphering the words, most of which seemed to have vanished with
the missing piece of panel. There was the graceful hook that
spelled &ldquo;ba,&rdquo; and here the slashed cross of
&ldquo;de.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Iran rinbaladelan linalandal&mdash;&rdquo; she said
aloud, and her blood ran cold at the sound of the city name.
&ldquo;Rinbaladelan son of the something? Or wait! The son of
Rinbaladelan, not the other way round.&rdquo;</p>

<p>A new city, then, founded by exiles? Quite possibly, if its name
had been inscribed on this long-sunk ship to show her home port.
She tossed the panel over near her gear, then got up and laid more
wood on the fire. In the blue and gold flame the salamanders leapt
and sported, rubbing their backs like cats on the burning sea
wrack. Jill wandered away from the pool of light so that she could
look up at the stars, hanging bright and clear above her, so close,
seemingly, that she felt she could stretch up a hand and touch
them. She wished she had a navigator&rsquo;s lore, to read the
stars and learn how far south she might be, but of course, for all
the strange lore she did know, the book of the stars was closed to
her. Far down the beach at low tide, the ocean lapped soft
waves,</p>

<p>What, then, was the noise? All at once she realized that for
some time now she&rsquo;d been hearing a distant sound that
she&rsquo;d been assuming, only half consciously, was surf, but
here in this sheltered bend of coast, and with the tide so far out
at that, no waves pounded on the shore. She went cold again,
freezing motionless, straining to hear, to place, the soft but
rhythmical <em>boom, boom, boom</em> floating through the night.</p>

<p>Alter some long minutes she realized that the sound was growing
louder, coming closer, pounding like the footsteps of an enormous
animal walking at a stately pace. She hurried back to the fire,
wondered if she should keep it or smother it, cursed herself for
not traveling armed, decided that one sword wouldn&rsquo;t have
been much good, anyway, against a beast as big as this one must be,
then laughed aloud at herself. She did, after all, have dweomer to
fall back upon. No doubt a blaze of etheric fire would frighten
away any animal, gigantic or not, if indeed a beast was what she
was hearing. The sound was definitely closer now and definitely
coming from the distant river. She walked away from the fire,
peered into the dark until her eyes adjusted, then saw pinpoints of
light flickering far off in the estuary. The booms grew louder
still.</p>

<p>Drums. Drums and torches coming along the riverbank, and she was
willing to wager that whoever came marching was pounding those
drums to scare the crocodiles off. All at once Wildfolk swarmed
into manifestation around her, a whole army of green and purple
gnomes, a flock of sprites, jumping or fluttering round in sheer
excitement. Her own gray gnome appeared, jigging up and down on top
of her pack.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The Elder Brothers, is it?&rdquo;</p>

<p>He nodded a yes and grinned, gape-mouthed. In a few minutes she
could see the dark shapes of ten men break free of the shadows
around the river and turn, torches held high, onto the beach. She
could even pick out the drummer, marching at the rear of the line
and banging a large, flat drum with some kind of stick. She went
back to her fire, threw on more wood to make it blaze in greeting,
and waited, arms crossed over her chest, as they drew nearer,
stumbling a little on the soft beach sand. With the crocodiles far
behind, the drummer fell silent. About ten feet away they stopped,
just out of the pool of light, but she could see them clearly
enough: elves, all right, with their long, delicate ears and
moonbeam-pale hair. They were dressed in full tunics, belted at the
waist with a glitter of gold, which came just above their knees,
and each man carried a quiver of arrows at his hip and a bow slung
over his back. Jill hoped that they spoke the same elven language
that she knew.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I give you my heartfelt greetings,&rdquo; she said,
&ldquo;and hope I might be welcome here.&rdquo;</p>

<p>She could just make out a rustle of surprised whispers. One man
stepped from the crowd and walked a few paces in her direction. A
dragon&rsquo;s head, worked in gold and as big as the palm of his
hand, clasped his belt. When he spoke, she could indeed understand him, but with some difficulty. His dialect was far more
different from that of the Westfolk than, say, Eldidd speech is
from that of Deverry proper.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Strangers are always less than welcome. Are you a victim
of the sea&rsquo;s rage?&rdquo;</p>

<p>It took her a moment to realize that he meant a castaway.
&ldquo;No, good sir. I came here quite deliberately, looking for
you and your people, in fact.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Automatically he turned to glance at the cove, turned back to
her with a slight frown.</p>

<p>&ldquo;I see no boat.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Well, no.&rdquo; There was nothing she could say but the
truth. &ldquo;I traveled by dweomer, and I come to greet you and
ask your aid in the name of the Light that shines behind all the
gods.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill had never seen anyone look so surprised. He turned on one
heel, staring at the beach, turned back to her with a shake of his
head, his mouth half-open as he fought for words. The men behind
him went dead-silent for a moment, then all began talking in a
gabble of surprise until their leader shouted at them to be
quiet.</p>

<p>&ldquo;It seems discourteous in the extreme to ask you for some
proof, but given the
circumstances&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;&rdquo;</p>

<p>Jill smiled, flung up one hand, and called upon the Spirits of
Aethyr. In a blaze and stream of bluish light they flocked to her
and made her hand and arm blaze with etheric fire far brighter than
a torch. All round them Wildfolk swarmed into manifestation and
spread out on the beach like an army.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Forgive me for doubting you.&rdquo; The elven leader
bowed deep. &ldquo;My name is Elamanderiel, and in the name of the
Light, I bid you welcome.&rdquo;</p>
<br>
<p class="noindent">When Dallandra left Jill, she followed the sun road until the
gold faded and the dappled tiles gave way to daffodils blooming
by a stream. Following the stream uphill led her back past the
circle of stones, through the mists, and down the long road by the
sea whose waves broke on every shore and none of them. At length
she made her way back to the river and found the Host scattered
across the meadow and dancing, as if nothing troubling had ever
happened in these lands. Under the young oak tree that hid his
daughter, Evandar was sitting in the grass and playing sour notes
on a bone whistle, about six inches long and bleached dead-white.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Odd little trinket,&rdquo; he remarked. &ldquo;I found it
lying over there, in among the bushes, as if someone had dropped it
by mistake. What do you think it is, my love?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Oh, ych! It looks like it was made from an elven
finger.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Doesn&rsquo;t it? What is it? Two joints somehow glued
together? No, but it&rsquo;s much too long for a single
joint.&rdquo; He held his own hand against it in illustration.
&ldquo;I wondered what it would call up, you see, but so far,
naught&rsquo;s appeared in answer to my playing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Perhaps it&rsquo;s just as well. It gives me the
strangest feeling, seeing it, and a worse one to hear it call. I
wish you&rsquo;d just smash it.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I would, except it&rsquo;s a riddle, and I think me a
good one at that,&rdquo; He tossed it into the air, seemed to catch
it, but when he opened his hand it was gone. &ldquo;Now I know
where it lies, but no one else does, and so I&rsquo;ve covered a riddle
with a riddle.&rdquo; </p>

<p>&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t imagine any of your
people making such a thing.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Indeed, no, and so I wonder: who dropped it here, and why
were they prowling beside my river? I think me we&rsquo;d best tend
to our borders.&rdquo;</p>

<p>All at once they were no longer alone. Like flames leaping out
of the ground, soldiers of the Host were gathering round him&mdash;how many, she couldn&rsquo;t tell&mdash;in a glitter of
coppery-colored mail and helmets, each man armed with a long
bronze-tipped spear. The music drifted away and stopped as the Host
swelled, spreading across the meadow. At some far distance she
heard horses neighing.</p>

<p>&ldquo;While you were gone, Alshandra was seen again,&rdquo; Evandar
said to Dallandra. &ldquo;With some of those from farther
in.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;Farther in? I wish you&rsquo;d explain&mdash;&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;There are two hosts, my love, the bright court that I
keep, and then the dark who live farther in. And that&rsquo;s all
I&rsquo;ll say about it now, for look! our horses!&rdquo;</p>

<p>A young boy hurried forward, leading two golden horses with
silvery manes and tails. As Dallandra mounted, she saw that the
foot soldiers had turned into cavalry as suddenly as changes always
came about in this country. In the clatter and jingle of
metal-studded tack they followed Evandar as he led the way out with
a whoop and a wave of his arm. Dallandra rode up next to him as the
road beneath flattened out and broke free into sunlight. Yet always
the mist remained, a gray and shifting wall, seeming solid at
times, thin and teased to silver at others to reveal glimpses of
shining cities or forested mountains. Dallandra noticed that it
always hung just at their left hand, as if they were traveling
deosil in a vast circle round a grassy plain.</p>

<p>&ldquo;The riding of the border,&rdquo; Evandar called out.</p>

<p>Behind him the Host roared their approval, and silver horns
blew.</p>

<p>On horses that never seemed to tire they rode for hours, till
the day faded into a greenish twilight, and a moon hung pink and
bloated just above the horizon, never rising, never setting. In
that ghastly light they traveled past ruins of cities fallen to
some great catastrophe and the black and twisted stumps of dead
forests, blanketed with ancient ash stretching as far as Dallandra
could see. The horses never stumbled, never paused, ambled on and
on and on through death and night, till just as she was ready to
scream from the terror of it day broke, blue and clear, to drench
them all in golden light. The mist writhed one last time, then blew
away on a fresh and rising wind. Just ahead in the flowered meadow
stood the pavilion of cloth-of-gold. Dallandra caught her breath in
a sob of relief.</p>

<p>&ldquo;Tne border lies secure!&rdquo; Evandar cried out. &ldquo;Go
then to your music and the feast, but come again when I
call.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Behind him the host of soldiers blew away, like dead leaves
swirling in an autumn wind. He swung down from his horse, helped
Dallandra dismount, then turned the reins of their horses over to
the same boy, who appeared as silently as before. Dallandra watched
him lead them away round the pavilion and wondered aloud if there
they would disappear.</p>

<p>&ldquo;No&rdquo; they&rsquo;ll return to their pastures, from whence
we stole them.&rdquo; He was grinning. &ldquo;Are you weary, my love?
Shall we join the feast?&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather you explained a few things to me.&rdquo;</p>

<p>&ldquo;If a riddle has an answer, it&rsquo;s a riddle no
more.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Simply because she was indeed very tired, she dropped
the subject and let him lead her into the pavilion. Their seats,
couches on which they could semirecline, stood at the head of the
hall. She sank gratefully onto the soft cushions and accepted a
golden goblet of mead from a page. As always, the mead and the
bread seemed real to her fingers and her taste, solid and so
delicious that she realized how hungry she was after the long ride.
While they ate, various members of the Host would come to Evandar
and talk in low voices, reporting things they&rsquo;d seen,
apparently. Harpers played nearby in long, sad harmonies, while
young voices sang, until at last, she slept.</p>

<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide5.html">previous</a> |
<a href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> |
<a href="slide7.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

