<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>Consider Phlebas</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="phlebas.css">
</head>
<body>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide22.html">previous</a> | <a
href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> | <a href=
"slide24.html">next</a></small></div>

<hr>
<h2 class="chapter"><em>Reasons: the Idirans</em></h2>

<hr>
<p>The Idirans were already at war, conquering the species they
regarded as inferior and subjugating them in a primarily religious
empire which was only incidentally a commercial one as
well.&nbsp;&nbsp;It was clear to them from the start that their
<em>jihad</em> to 'calm, integrate and instruct' these other
species and bring them under the direct eye of their God had to
continue and expand, or be meaningless.&nbsp;&nbsp;A halt or
moratorium, while possibly making at least as much sense as
continued expansion in military, commercial and administrative
terms, would negate such militant hegemonisation as a religious
concept.&nbsp;&nbsp;Zeal outranked and outshone pragmatism; as with
the Culture, it was the principle which mattered.</p>

<p>The war, long before it was finally declared, was regarded by
the Idiran high command as a continuation of the permanent
hostilities demanded by theological and disciplinary colonisation,
involving a quantitative and qualitative escalation of armed
conflict of only a limited degree to cope with the relatively
equivalent technological expertise of the Culture.</p>

<p>While the Idirans universally assumed that having made their
point the people in the Culture would back down, a few of the
Idiran policy-makers anticipated that, should the Culture prove as
determined as a 'worst possible' scenario projected, a politically
judicious settlement might be arrived at which would save face and
have advantages for both sides.&nbsp;&nbsp;This would involve a
pact or treaty in which the Idirans would effectively agree to slow
or limit their expansion for a time, thus allowing the Culture to
claim some&#151;but not too much&#151;success, and provide the
Idirans with (a) a religiously justifiable excuse for consolidation
which would both let the Idiran military machine draw breath and
cut the ground from beneath those Idirans who objected to the rate
and cruelty of Idiran expansion, and (b) a further reason for an
increase in military expenditure, to guarantee that in the next
confrontation the Culture, or any other opponent, could be
decisively out-armed and destroyed.&nbsp;&nbsp;Only the most
fervent and fanatical sections of Idiran society urged or even
contemplated a war to the finish, and even so merely counselled
continuing the fight against the Culture after and despite the
back-down and attempt to sue for peace which they too believed the
Culture must inevitably make.</p>

<p>Having drawn up these 'no-lose' formulations of the likely
course of events, the Idirans joined battle with the Culture
without qualm or hesitation.</p>

<p>At worst, they perhaps considered that the war was being begun
in an atmosphere of mutual incomprehension.&nbsp;&nbsp;They could
not have envisaged that while they were understood almost too
perfectly by their enemy, they had comprehensively misapprehended
the forces of belief, need&#151;even fear&#151;and morale operating
within the Culture.</p>

<hr>
<br clear="all">
<hr>
<div class="center"><small><a href="slide22.html">previous</a> | <a
href="toc.html">Table of Contents</a> | <a href=
"slide24.html">next</a></small></div>
</body>
</html>

