<html>

<head>
<title>Chapter 3</title>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 3.0">
<meta name="Microsoft Theme" content="none, default">
<meta name="Microsoft Border" content="none, default">
</head>

<body>

<h3 id="_RWTOC-1">Chapter 3</h3>

<p>THE STRENGTH HE had gathered sustained him for a long while, and Jack hoped that soon
he might quit the stinking realm. The temperature did not diminish further, and there came
one light rainfall as he was preparing to sleep. He huddled beside a rock and drew his
cloak over his head. It did not protect him completely, but he laughed even as the waters
reached his skin. It was the first rainfall he had felt since Glyve.</p>

<p>Later, there were sufficient pools and puddles for him to clean himself as well as to
drink and to refill his flask. He continued on rather than sleep, so his garments might
dry more quickly.</p>

<p>It brushed past his face so rapidly that he barely had time to react. It happened as he
neared a shattered tower that a piece of the darkness broke away and dropped toward him,
moving in a rapid, winding way.</p>

<p>He did not have sufficient time to draw his blade. It passed his face and darted away.
He managed to hurl all three stones which he carried before it was out of sight, coming
close to hitting it with the second one. Then he bowed his head and cursed for a full
half-minute. It had been a bat.</p>

<p>Wishing for shadows, he began to run.</p>

<p>There were many broken towers upon the plain, and one at the mouth of a pass led
between high hills and into the range of mountains they faced. Because Jack did not like
passing near structures&#151;ruined or otherwise&#151;which might house enemies, he
attempted to skirt it at as great a distance as possible.</p>

<p>He had passed it and was drawing near the cleft when he heard his name called out.</p>

<p>&quot;Jack! My Shadowjack!&quot; came the cry. &quot;It's you! It really is!&quot;</p>

<p>He spun to face the direction from which the words had come, his hand on the hilt of
his blade.</p>

<p>&quot;Nay! Nay, my Jackie! You need no swords with old Rosie!&quot;</p>

<p>He almost missed her, so motionless did she stand: a crone, dressed in black, leaning
upon a staff, a broken wall at her back.</p>

<p>&quot;How is it that you know my name?&quot; he finally asked.</p>

<p>&quot;Have you forgotten me, darlin' Jack? Forgotten me? Say you haven't. . .&quot;</p>

<p>He studied the bent form with its nest of white and gray hair.</p>

<p>A broken mop, he thought. She reminds me of a broken mop.</p>

<p>Yet. . .</p>

<p>There was something familiar about her He could not say what.</p>

<p>He let his hand drop from the weapon. He moved toward her.</p>

<p>&quot;Rosie?&quot;</p>

<p>No. I could not be. . .</p>

<p>He drew very near. Finally, he was staring down, looking into her eyes.</p>

<p>&quot;Say you remember, Jack.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I remember,&quot; he said.</p>

<p>And he did.</p>

<p>&quot;. . .Rosalie, at the Sign of the Burning Pestle, on the coach road near the
ocean. But that was so long ago, and in Twilight. . .&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Yes,&quot; she said. &quot;It was so long ago and so far away. But I never forgot
you, Jack. Of all the men that tavern girl met, she remembered you the best. &#151;What
has become of you, Jack?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Ah, my Rosalie! I was beheaded&#151;wrong fully, I hasten to add&#151;and I am
just now re turning from Glyve.&#151;But what of you? You're not a darksider. You're
mortal. What are you doing in the horrid realm of Drekkheim?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I am the Wise Woman of the Eastern Marches, Jack. I'll admit I was not very wise
in my youth&#151;to be taken in by your ready smile and your promises&#151;but I learned
better as I grew older. I nursed an old bawd in her failing years and she taught me
something of the Art. When I learned the Baron had need of a Wise Woman to guard this
passage to his kingdom, I came and swore allegiance to him. 'Tis said he is a wicked man,
but he has always been good to old Rosie. Better than most she's known.&#151;It is good
that you remembered me.&quot;</p>

<p>Then she produced a cloth parcel from beneath her cloak, unfastened it and spread it
open upon the ground.</p>

<p>&quot;Sit and break bread with me, Jack,&quot; she said. &quot;It will be like old
times.&quot;</p>

<p>He removed his sword belt and seated himself across the cloth from her.</p>

<p>&quot;It's been a long while since you ate the living stone,&quot; she said; and she
passed him bread and a piece of dried meat. &quot;So I know that you are hungry.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;How is it that you know of my encounter with the stone?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I am, as I said, a Wise Woman&#151;in the technical sense of the term. I did not
know it was your doing, but I knew that the stone had been destroyed. This is the reason I
patrol this place for the Baron. I keep aware of all that occurs and of all who pass this
way. I report these things to him.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Oh,&quot; said Jack.</p>

<p>&quot;There must have been something to all your boasting&#151;that you were not a mere
darksider, but a Lord, a Power, albeit a poor one,&quot; she said. &quot;For all my
figuring has told me that only one such could have eaten the red rock. You were not just
jesting then when you boasted to that poor girl about that thing. Other things, perhaps,
but not that thing. . .&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;What other things?&quot; he asked.</p>

<p>&quot;Things such as saying you would come back for her one day and take her to dwell
with you in Shadow Guard, that castle no man has ever set eyes upon. You told her that,
and she waited many years. Then one night an old bawd took ill at the inn. The young
girl&#151;who was no longer a young girl&#151;had her future to think about. She made a
bargain to team a better trade.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack was silent for a time, staring at the ground. He swallowed the bread he had been
chewing, then, &quot;I went back,&quot; he said. &quot;I went back, and no one even
remembered my Rosalie. Everything was changed. All the people were different. I went away
again.&quot;</p>

<p>She cackled.</p>

<p>&quot;Jack! Jack! Jack!&quot; she said. &quot;There's no need for your pretty lies now.
It makes no difference to an old woman the things a young girl believed.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You say you are a Wise Woman,&quot; he said. &quot;Have you no better way than
guessing to tell the truth from a lie?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I'd not use the Art against a Power&#151;&quot; she began.</p>

<p>&quot;Use it,&quot; he said; and he looked into her eyes once more.</p>

<p>She squinted and leaned forward, her gaze boring into his own. Her eyes were suddenly
vast caverns opened to engulf him. He bore the falling sensation that came with this. It
vanished seconds later when she looked away from him, turning her head to rest upon her
right shoulder.</p>

<p>&quot;You did go back,&quot; she said.</p>

<p>&quot;It was as I told you.&quot;</p>

<p>He picked up his bread and began to chew noisily, so as not to appear to notice the
moisture which had appeared upon her cheek.</p>

<p>&quot;I forgot,&quot; she finally said. &quot;I forgot how little time means to a
darksider. The years mean so little to you that you do not keep proper track of them. You
simply decided one day that you would go back for Rosie, never thinking that she might
have become an old woman and died or gone away. I understand now, Jackie. You are used to
things that never change. The Powers remain the Powers. You may kill a man today and have
dinner with him ten years hence, laughing over the duel you fought and trying to recall
its cause. Oh, it's a good life you lead!&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I do not have a soul. You do.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;A soul?&quot; she laughed. &quot;What's a soul? I've never seen one. How do I
know it's there? Even so, what good has it done me? I'd trade it in a twinkling to be like
one of you. It's beyond my Art, though.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I'm sorry,&quot; Jack said.</p>

<p>They ate in silence for a time. &quot;There is a thing I would like to ask you,&quot;
she said.</p>

<p>&quot;What is that?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Is there really a Shadow Guard?&quot; she asked Him. &quot;A castle of high,
shadow-decked halls, invisible to your enemies and friends alike, where you would have
taken that girl to spend her day with you?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Of course,&quot; he told her; and he watched her eat. She was missing many teeth
and had a tendency to smack her lips now. But suddenly, behind her net of wrinkles, he saw
the face of the young girl she had been. White teeth had flashed when she had smiled, and
her hair had been long and glossy, as the darkside sky between stars. And there had been a
certain luster in eyes the blue of dayside skies he had looked upon. He had liked to think
it was only there for him.</p>

<p>She must not have much longer to live, he thought. As the girl's face vanished, he
regarded the sagging flesh beneath her chin.</p>

<p>&quot;Of course,&quot; he repeated, &quot;and now that I've found you, will you
accompany me back? Out of this wretched land and into a place of comforting shadows? Come
spend the rest of your days with me, and I will be kind to you.&quot;</p>

<p>She studied his face.</p>

<p>&quot;You would keep your promise after all these years&#151;now that I'm an ugly old
lady?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Let us go through the pass and journey back toward Twilight together.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Why would you do this for me?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You know why.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Quickly, give me your hands!&quot; she said.</p>

<p>He extended his hands and she seized them, turning both palms upward. She leaned far
forward and scrutinized them.</p>

<p>&quot;Ah! It is no use!&quot; she said. &quot;I cannot read you, Jack. The hands of a
thief make too many twists and turns and manipulations. The lines are all
wrong&#151;though they are magnificently ruined hands!&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;What is it that you see but do not wish to tell me, Rosalie?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Do not finish eating. Take your bread and run. I am too old to go with you. It
was sweet of you to ask. That young girl might have liked Shadow Guard, but I am content
to spend my days where I am.&#151;Go now. Hurry! And try to forgive me.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Forgive you for what?&quot;</p>

<p>She raised and kissed each of his hands.</p>

<p>&quot;When I saw the approach of him whom I had hated all these years, I sent a message
by means of my Art and resolved to detain you here. Now I know that I did wrong. But the
Baron's guard must already be hurrying in this direction. Enter the pass and stop for
nothing. You may be able to elude them on the other side. I will try to raise a storm to
obscure your trail.&quot;</p>

<p>He sprang to his feet, drew her to hers.</p>

<p>&quot;Thank you,&quot; he said. &quot;But what did you see in my palm?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Nothing.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Tell me, Rosalie.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It does not matter so much if they capture you,&quot; she said, &quot;for there
is a Power greater than the Baron that you would face, and face him you will. What happens
then is crucial. Do not let your hatred lead you to the machine that thinks like a man,
only faster. There is too much power involved, and such power and hatred would not go well
together.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Such machines only exist dayside.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;I know. Go now, Jackie boy. Go!&quot;</p>

<p>He kissed her forehead.</p>

<p>&quot;I will see you again one day,&quot; he said, and turning, he dashed toward the
pass.</p>

<p>As she watched him go she was suddenly aware of the chill that had descended upon the
land.</p>

<p>Beginning low and rising steadily, the foothills soon lowered above him. He ran on,
seeing them give way to high, slanting walls of stone. The pass widened, narrowed, and
widened again. Finally, he pushed his panic away, held it at arms' length and slowed to a
walk. It would serve no purpose to tire himself quickly; a steady, slower pace would allow
him to cover more ground before fatigue overtook him.</p>

<p>He breathed deeply and listened for the sounds of pursuit. He heard nothing.</p>

<p>A long, black snake flowed along the wall at his right, vanished into a cleft in the
rock, and did not reappear. Above him, a shooting star burnt its sudden way through the
sky. Veins of minerals glittered like glass in the starlight.</p>

<p>He thought of Rosalie and wondered what it would have been like to have had parents, to
have been a child, to have depended on others to assure his welfare. He wondered what it
was like to be old and know that you were going to die and not return again. He grew tired
of these thoughts after a time just as he had grown tired of everything. He felt a strong
desire to lie down, wrap his cloak about him and sleep.</p>

<p>He did things to keep awake. He counted his paces&#151;a thousand, then a thousand
more; he rubbed his eyes; he hummed several songs all the way through; he reviewed spells
and incantations; he thought of food; he thought of women; he thought of his greatest
thefts; he counted a thousand more paces; he rehearsed tortures and ignominies; and
finally he thought of Evene.</p>

<p>The high walls soon began to descend.</p>

<p>He moved among foothills, similar to those where he had entered. There were still no
sounds of pursuit&#151;indicating, he hoped, that he would not be caught in the pass. Once
he struck open country again there would be more places where he could hide himself.</p>

<p>There came a rumble from overhead, and he looked up to see that the stars were partly
obscured by clouds. They had gathered quickly, he realized; and he remembered Rosalie's
promise to try to raise a storm to obscure his trail. He smiled as the lightning flashed,
the thunder boomed and the first small drops began to strike about him.</p>

<p>When he emerged from the pass, he was drenched once more. The storm showed no sign of
abating. The visibility was poor, but it appeared that he had entered upon a rock-strewn
plain similar to the one he had left on the other side of the mountains.</p>

<p>He deviated over a mile from what he felt to be his course; that is, the most expedient
route of departure from the Baron's realm. Then he sought and found a group of boulders.
He encamped on the driest side of the largest and slept.</p>

<p>He was awakened by the sound of hoofbeats. He lay there listening and determined that
it came from the direction of the pass. He drew his blade and held it at his side. The
rain still fell, but lightly now; the occasional peal of thunder that he heard came from a
great distance.</p>

<p>The hoofbeats grew fainter. He pressed his ear to the ground, sighed, and then smiled.
He was still safe.</p>

<p>Despite the protest of his aching muscles, he rose to his feet and continued on his
way. He resolved to travel for as long as the rain continued to obscure as much of his
trail as possible.</p>

<p>His boots sucked holes in the dark mud, and his clothing stuck to his body. He sneezed
several times and began to tremble from the cold. Noticing a strange ache in his right
hand, he looked down to see that he was still gripping his blade. He dried the weapon on
the underside of his cloak and replaced it in the sheath. Through breaks in the
cloud-cover, he made out familiar constellations. By these he adjusted his course
eastward.</p>

<p>Eventually, the rain ceased. There was nothing but mud all about him. However, he
continued to walk. His clothing began to dry, and the exercise expelled something of the
chill he had taken.</p>

<p>The hoofbeats came and went again, somewhere behind him. Why spend so much effort to
hunt down one person? he wondered. It had not been this way the last time that he had
returned. Of course, he had never come this way before.</p>

<p>Either I have achieved some special significance during my deathbound time, he decided,
or the Baron's men hunt those who return for the sheer sport of it. In either instance, it
is best to stay clear of them. What could Rosalie have meant when she said that it does
not matter so much if they capture me? It is very strange, if she saw the truth.</p>

<p>Later he reached higher, rockier terrain, leaving the mud below and behind. He began
looking for a place to rest. The area was level, however, and he continued rather than be
caught in the open.</p>

<p>As he struggled along, he saw what appeared to be a distant hedge of stones. Drawing
nearer, he noted that they were of a lighter color than the others in the vicinity and
that they appeared to be regularly spaced. They did not appear to have been shaped by the
forces of nature but hand-hewn by some monomaniac whose problem involved pentagons.</p>

<p>He found himself a resting place on the dry side of the nearest of these, and there he
slept.</p>

<p>He dreamed of rain and thunder once again. The thunder throbbed continuously, and the
entire universe shook with its rumble. Then, for a long while, he dwelled half-aware in
the borderland between sleep and wakefulness. On one side or the other, he felt that
something was amiss, although he was not certain what or why this was.</p>

<p>I'm not wet! he decided, feeling surprise and annoyance.</p>

<p>Then he followed the thunder back to his body; his head was pillowed by an outflung
arm. For a moment he lay there, fully awake; then he leaped to his feet, realizing they
had found his trail.</p>

<p>The riders came into view. He counted seven.</p>

<p>His blade came into his hand, and he threw his cloak back over his shoulders. He ran
fingers through his hair, rubbed his eyes and waited.</p>

<p>Over his left shoulder, high in the middle of the air, a star appeared to brighten.</p>

<p>He decided that it was senseless to flee on foot from mounted men, especially when he
knew of no haven which he might seek. They would only run him to the ground if he fled,
and by then he would be too tired to give a good battle and send at least a few of them to
the Pits.</p>

<p>So he waited, only slightly distracted by the growing blaze in the heavens.</p>

<p>The cloven hooves of the seven black riders struck sparks from the stones. Their eyes,
high above the ground, were like a handful of glowing embers buried in his direction.
Wisps of smoke emerged from their nostrils, and occasionally they emitted high-pitched
whistling sounds. A silent, wolf-like creature ran with them, head near the ground, tail
streaming. It changed direction at every point where Jack had turned while approaching the
stone.</p>

<p>&quot;You will be the first,&quot; he said, raising the blade.</p>

<p>As if it had heard his words, it raised its muzzle, howled and raced on ahead of the
riders.</p>

<p>Jack retreated four paces and braced his back against the stone as it came toward him.
He raised the blade high, as if to slash, and seized the hilt with both hands.</p>

<p>Its mouth was open, tongue lolled to the side, exhibiting enormous teeth in the midst
of a near-human grin.</p>

<p>When it sprang, he brought the blade down in a semicircle and held it before him,
bracing his elbows against the stone.</p>

<p>It did not growl, bark or howl; it screamed as it impaled itself upon the weapon.</p>

<p>The impact forced the air from Jack's lungs and bloodied his elbows where they rested.
For a moment, his head swam, but the screaming and the rank odor of the creature kept him
conscious.</p>

<p>After a moment, it stopped. It snapped twice at the blade, quivered and died.</p>

<p>He placed his foot upon the carcass and with a great, heaving twist withdrew the blade.
Then he raised it once more and faced the oncoming riders.</p>

<p>They slowed, drew rein, and halted, perhaps a dozen paces from where he stood.</p>

<p>The leader&#151;a short, hairless man of tremendous girth&#151;dismounted and moved for
ward. He shook his head as he stared down at the bleeding creature.</p>

<p>&quot;You should not have slain Shunder,&quot; he said. His voice was gruff and raspy.
&quot;He sought to disarm you, not to harm you.&quot;</p>

<p>Jack laughed.</p>

<p>The man looked up, his eyes flashing yellow with power behind them.</p>

<p>&quot;You mock me, thief!&quot; he said.</p>

<p>Jack nodded.</p>

<p>&quot;If you take me alive, I will doubtless suffer at your hands,&quot; he said.
&quot;I see no reason to conceal my feelings, Baron. I mock you because I hate you. Have
you nothing better to do than harass returnees?&quot;</p>

<p>Stepping backward, the Baron raised his hand. At this signal, the other riders
dismounted. Grinning, he drew his blade and leaned upon it.</p>

<p>He said, &quot;You were trespassing in my realm, you know.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It is the only route back from Glyve,&quot; said Jack. &quot;All who return must
cross some of your territory.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;That is true,&quot; said the Baron, &quot;and those whom I apprehend must pay the
toll: a few years in my service.&quot;</p>

<p>The riders flanked Jack, forming a semicircle like a half-crown of steel as they
enclosed him.</p>

<p>&quot;Put up your blade, shadow man,&quot; said the Baron. &quot;If we must disarm you,
you will doubtless be injured in the scuffle. I should prefer an unmaimed servant.&quot;</p>

<p>As the Baron spoke. Jack spat. Two of the men glanced upward and continued to stare at
the sky. Suspecting an attempt to distract him, Jack did not follow their eyes.</p>

<p>But then another man turned his head; and seeing this, the Baron himself looked upward.</p>

<p>High, and at the periphery of his vision, Jack became aware of the great glow that had
appeared. He turned his head then, and he saw the great sphere that raced in their
direction, growing and brightening as it approached.</p>

<p>Quickly, he dropped his eyes. Whatever the nature of the thing, it was senseless not to
take advantage of the opportunity it had provided.</p>

<p>He leaped forward and beheaded the gaping man who stood at the end of the arc to his
right.</p>

<p>He was able to split the next man's skull, despite a hasty parry which came too slow as
the man turned. By then, the Baron and his four retainers had turned and were upon him.</p>

<p>Jack parried and retreated as rapidly as he could, not venturing a riposte. He
attempted to circle the stone to his left, while keeping them at bay. They moved too
quickly, however, and he found himself parenthesized. Each close-range blow that he
parried now caused his palm to sting and sent a tingling sensation up his arm. The blade
felt heavier with each stroke.</p>

<p>They began to pierce his guard, little nicks and slashes appearing on his shoulder, his
biceps and his thighs. Memories of the Dung Pits flashed through his mind. From the
ferocity of the assault, he judged that they no longer wished to take him prisoner but to
obtain vengeance for their fallen fellows.</p>

<p>Realizing that he would soon be hacked to pieces, Jack resolved to take the Baron with
him to Glyve if at all possible. He made ready to hurl himself upon him, heedless of the
others' blades, as soon as an opening appeared in the Baron's defense. It would have to
come soon, he realized, for he felt himself weakening from moment to bloody moment.</p>

<p>As if sensing this, the Baron fought care fully, protecting himself at all times,
allowing his men to lead the assault. Gasping, Jack decided he could wait no longer.</p>

<p>Then everything ended. Their weapons be came too hot to hold as blue flames danced
along the blades. As they released them and cried out, they were blinded by a flash of
white light which occurred just a brief distance above their heads. Showers of sparks fell
about them and the odors of combustion reached their nostrils.</p>

<p>&quot;Baron,&quot; came a sugar-filled voice, &quot;you are trespassing as well as
attempting to slay my prisoner. What have you to say for yourself?&quot;</p>

<p>Fear took root in his bowels and blossomed within his stomach as Tack recognized the
voice.&nbsp;</p>
</body>
</html>
